The Cosby Showwas then the most popular sitcom on television, and for African Americans arguably one of the most important television shows ever made. “It was particularly incredible being an African American woman and what that show meant to me and my family,” Lisa told me. “To see African Americans depicted in such a positive light, and for me to be standing in the Huxtable kitchen the morning of my first table read, as I’m listening to the cast read the script, I could have just floated off at that point.” In the years that followed, she could have floated off to any number of television production jobs: script supervisor, production coordinator, producer. “And that is what I thought I was going to do,” she recalled. Then one day Lisa read an article about one of the greatest—and apparently best-smelling—musicians of all time. “I’m a huge Prince fan,” Lisa said. “And this article talked about how he always smelled very good. And the reason for it was he kept an assortment of fragrances on his bureau. He put Chanel No. 5 in his boots.” Lisa happens to love fragrance. She always has. But her fascination had never gone much beyond the appreciation of a consumer. Prince made her realize that fragrance was so much more than an accessory. It was a form of creative expression. An art. “I just loved the idea of this blending of fragrances and creating these unique scents,” she said, reflecting not just on an interest that she shared with Prince (which was obviously totally cool) but also on the moment that really got the ball rolling for her. Over the next few years, Lisa started to read and research the different kinds of scent notes in perfumes—top notes, heart notes, base notes—and how to combine them. She learned the art of application. “The way that your fragrance lasts on your body is you layer it,” she explained to me casually during our conversation, as I’m sure she’d done for thousands of people before me. “You wash with it, you moisturize with it, then you spritz it on.” Early on she tried blending drugstore lotions with various fragrances from her collection to make her own scented moisturizer, but she only ended up making a mess. “They weren’t balanced from a chemistry perspective, so things would just separate,” she said. Eventually, browsing the shelves of a new age bookstore with her husband one Sunday afternoon in Brooklyn’s Park Slope neighborhood, she came across a book on essential oils that also included recipes for things like massage oil, hair oil, creams, balms, and butters. Everything she liked. “I thought, ‘This is great, I can make my own lotions,’” Lisa recalled. “The recipes were very bare-bones, and they used things likeparaffin and lanolin, which I wasn’t too crazy about using. I wanted to use beeswax, and I wanted to find cocoa butter. So I used the skeleton of the recipes within the book, and then I just started adding my own combinations. I could go back and tweak it if something came out runny or too thick or too oily or too stiff, and adjust the recipe accordingly.” By the early 1990s, Lisa had her formulas down: Lotions and body butters that held together just the way she wanted. Lotions she could actually use. Now, if you are anything like me when Lisa first told me this story, you would assume that these first lotions were the beginning of the Carol’s Daughter empire as we know it. Not quite. In those first few years, none of Lisa’s creations were for public consumption. They weren’t for sale. They were only forher. They were made with fragrancesshe liked, with ingredients like aloe vera and cocoa butter thatshe preferred, that addressed the moisturizing needs ofher skin. This was her hobby, after all. It was for fun. She wasn’t trying to please anyone else. She was, well, scratching her own itch. Whywouldn’ther creations match her preferences? Plus, it wasn’t like she was making this stuff as a diversion from, or a fast track to, a different life. She was very happy with her career. “I was ecstatic. It was wonderful,” Lisa said. “And I think because I was very happy at what I was doing with work, when I had my downtime I didn’t have that desperate feeling that you feel when you’re like, ‘Oh, God, I’m finally not at work, and I just want to relax and veg out.’ So I became creative when I was at home.” The sheer joy of tinkering and stretching her creative limits sustained Lisa all the way through the end of The Cosby Show, which went off the air in 1992. She spent the next year as a freelance production assistant, bouncing from show to show until the summer, when the television business in New York traditionally gets very slow and work dries up. That’s when her mother, Carol, suggested Lisa try to sell her lotions and creams at their church’s upcoming flea market. It was May 1993, and Lisa thought it would be nice to make some money and contribute more toward household expenses during the summer lull. But still she was skeptical: “I said, ‘Really, Mommy? Doyou think people would pay for this?’” We know the answer to that question now, and with hindsight it seems self-evident. But in the moment, Lisa’s apprehension would have been a totally reasonable reaction for someone who, for the first time, was being asked to think about her personal creation as a product marketed to other people. As a business idea. In this way, at least as entrepreneurial stories go, Lisa Price is the most like the rest of us. She was so passionate about what she did, it was so intrinsically rewarding just as an activity, that it didn’t even occur to her to take the next step with her idea—to sell it, or to turn it into a business. It was almost weird for her, as her response to her mother clearly illustrates, to even think other people would be interested. I’ve heard numerous variations of this story from a number of entrepreneurs. I even lived it myself when, in a nod to the growing popularity of the podcast, we decided to take the show on the road and do live interviews in big theaters. I mean, for the majority of my career, I have come to audiences as a disembodied voice through their car radio speakers or their earbuds. No one wanted tosee me, I thought. For weeks, often months, before each of these initial live events, I worried whether enough of our fans would be interested in watching two people talk onstage. I wondered aloud to anyone who would listen, much as Lisa Price did to her mother, whether people would actually pay for this. And not just the $50 for a ticket, but also the cost of childcare and parking and all the other things that go along with a night at the theater. As luck would have it, we sold out nearly every one of those early live shows, and each time it happened, it was a genuine shock to me. Because when you’re not looking for a good business idea, it just doesn’t seem real when one findsyou, even when the proof is staring you in the face. This is especially true, I learned in talking with Lisa, when the idea involves a consumer product. Products are things on shelves in stores, with labels and bar codes on them, and prices that end in “.99.” In 1993, Lisa was making these lotions in her kitchen and storing them in Tupperware containers she had in thecupboard. She didn’t havenames for them—they were just whatever they were. And let’s say she took her mom up on this crazy idea to set up a table at the flea market, what was she going to sell them in? Of course, none of that was really important. Those issues would be easy enough to address with a little bit of time and ingenuity (for example, she used old baby food jars as packaging in the early days). Whatwas important was something Carol understood that Lisa had never really considered: her stuff really worked. And Carol would know. Lisa produced a number of lotions specifically for her mother and for her younger siblings, and they worked brilliantly. Carol’s skin had never looked better, and her kids’ dry, irritated skin had never felt better. These lotions may have started as a personal passion project that gave Lisa a creative outlet, but soon enough they served a greater purpose. They solved real problems: hers, her mom’s, and her siblings’. Her customers, if they were out there as Carol believed, would benefit from her products in much the same ways. And that is the key to finding an idea, whether you are actively on the hunt for one or simply open to the possibility. No matter what kind of business you are thinking of starting—whether it’s a product or a service, whether it’s your side hustle or your main thing, whether it’s for men or women, kids or adults—the intersection of personal passion and problem solving is where good ideas are born and lasting businesses are built. Trusting her mother’s instincts, Lisa invested $100 in materials, table rental, and flowers for decoration, and then put her items up for sale for the first time. And guess what? She sold out. But just like the creative process up to that point, this, too, was all about fun. It still wasn’t a business. Then, in August of that year, something revelatory—possibly fated—appeared on Lisa’s TV screen. I’ll let her describe it, because it’s too good not to share in its entirety. “I was watching an episode of The Oprah Winfrey Show, and she was talking to people who had started businesses with little or no money and one person said, ‘Well, you have to know that you’re passionate about what you do. If you’re not passionate about it, you will quit before you make any money.’ And I remember thinking, ‘I’m really passionate about this stuff. I like doing this.’ And then somebody else said she would define passion as, if someone woke you up out of your bed in the middle of the night, would you go and do this thing? And I honestly could answer yes to that question. And I remember sitting on the edge of my bed and saying, ‘Wait a minute. Maybe this could be a business.’ And that day was the day that I realized this just doesn’t have to be a hobby. This can be more.” Actually, a lot more. As the summer drew to a close, and buoyed by her success at the church flea market, Lisa expanded her marketing that fall to street fairs, arts and crafts festivals, and other flea markets throughout the city’s five boroughs.