His father, with no shortage of his own experiencetrying to get small breweries off the ground in the 1950s and 1960s, had advised him to find someone to partner with because starting a business is lonely, “full of ups and downs” that are hard to stomach when you’re on the entrepreneurial roller coaster by yourself. It was a piece of advice echoed unequivocally by Paul Graham more than twenty years later, when he wrote, “Starting a startup is too hard for one person. Even if you could do all the work yourself, you need colleagues to brainstorm with, to talk you out of stupid decisions, and to cheer you up when things go wrong . . . The low points in a startup are so low that few could bear them alone.” Partners don’t just help your idea survive the fickleness of consumers, the ruthlessness of competitors, the scrutiny of investors, or the uncertainty of world events. They helpyou survive as well. And if your idea is ever to become a real business, it needs you alive and kicking. Which means it needs your partner—your co-founder—too. 6 Fund the Business, Part 1: Bootstrapping Adam Lowry and Eric Ryan found their first retailer for Method in February 2001, with a chain of family-owned grocery stores along the San Francisco peninsula called Mollie Stone’s Markets. The first location was in Burlingame, just off El Camino Real, which runs like an artery down the peninsula, through two of the richest counties in California and into Silicon Valley, crossing Sand Hill Road along the way. That road’s famous concentration of venture capital firms had all basically snubbed Adam and Eric when they first went out looking for investors. This was a time, just as the dot-com bubble was preparing to burst, when if you had “.com” in the name of your business, there was a line out the door to give you money. But if you were doing something more analog, like trying to disrupt a stagnant consumer goods category dominated by two multibillion-dollar conglomerates—in this case, Procter & Gamble and Unilever—that door wasn’t just closed, it was locked and dead-bolted, and the lights were turned off inside. * Adam and Eric didn’t worry too much about the initial rejections they received from the Sand Hill Road guys (and make no mistake, it was almost all guys on Sand Hill back then), because they knew they wouldn’t actually need that much money to get their business off the ground. These were not dangerous industrial solvents they were trying to make, after all. They were creating natural, nontoxic cleaners with water, vinegar, baking soda, plant extracts, and essential oils—“very common, everyday, mild chemicals . . . that don’t require a professional lab in order to mix,” as Adam described it. So they began by each putting in $45,000 of their life savings—Eric’s bequeathed by his grandfather, who had recently passed away—and used that to start experimenting. Those first couple years, they did most everything themselves: perfecting their formula, guiding the design and manufacture of the bottles, printing Eric’s personal cell phone number on the bottle as the customer service number, * doing in-store demos to get customers (Eric even wore a lab coat), pitching investors like the Sand Hill Road firms, calling on retail accounts like Mollie Stone’s Markets. They even handled inventory management. Every day, as they expanded into more Mollie Stone’s and then into additional boutique groceries, Adam and Eric would take turns driving around to each store to check inventory levels and restock the shelves as necessary. They called it their paper route. And the subsequent costs attendant to all these tasks, if money from friends and family wouldn’t cover it, Adam and Eric would just put on their credit cards. They leaned so heavily on personal credit, in fact, that when they finally landed their first professional money ($1 million from a single investor), they couldn’t afford to pay the restaurant bill at the traditional closing dinner because they’d already maxed out all of their cards. If you’ve never started a business, this sounds like the height of irresponsible money management. But there is a name for what Adamand Eric did. It’s calledbootstrapping. Bootstrapping is what you do if you don’t have a Rolodex of billionaires to flip through and ask for money; if it’s your first company and you’re going it alone, just you and your partner(s). More specifically, bootstrapping is using what you have at your disposal to get yourself where you want to be. Typically, when we talk about bootstrapping, it’s a financial conversation, and to an extent that will always be true. Without other people’s money to stand up your business—whether it’s from friends and family, venture capital, or something like an SBA loan—you have to find other ways to pay for things: credit cards, personal savings, cycling profits back into the business. But having spoken to hundreds of brilliant entrepreneurs, I know that bootstrapping is more than simply using alternative sources of personal financing as a last resort. It’s also about keeping control of your business as long as you can. It’s about using other nonmonetary assets to solve problems that you would otherwise hire someone else to solve or throw money at—assets like your time, your effort, your network, and your own talent and ingenuity. Joe Gebbia, Brian Chesky, and Nathan Blecharczyk leveraged every one of those resources in 2007 and 2008 to bootstrap their way into the peer-to-peer online hospitality platform that we know today as Airbnb. Airbnb began as a website called Airbedandbreakfast.com that was designed to offer a place to stay for attendees of large conferences once all the hotel rooms in the host city were sold-out. The idea came to Joe one day in September 2007 as he sat at home surfing the internet, wondering how he was going to make rent and not lose a friend. See, Joe’s landlord had just raised his rent by 25 percent mere weeks after Joe had convinced his new roommate, Brian Chesky, to quit his job down in Los Angeles and move up to San Francisco to start a company together. What company? Well, that part they hadn’t figured out yet. As luck would have it, there was an industrial design conference coming to San Francisco a couple weeks later that they were thinking about attending—he and Brian were both graduates of the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD)—and when Joe navigated tothe conference website to check if passes were still available, he saw right there on the front page, in big red letters, the words HOTELS SOLD OUT . The idea became clear to Joe right away: “I’m thinking, ‘What a bummer. Designers are going to come last minute, and they’re not going to have a place to stay.’ In that instant, I’m looking around the living room, and I go, ‘Wait, we have so much extra space here, and I have air beds in the closet.’ And so the idea of hosting people on air beds gradually became natural to me.” He brought the idea to Brian, his roommate. Brian had $1,000 to his name when he moved up to San Francisco that month. His portion of the rent was $1,050 per month. Even I can do that math. As odd an idea as this may have seemed in the moment, it was a no-brainer to someone who had no money. “It’ll be more than just a place to sleep,” Joe thought at the time. “We can cook breakfast in the morning, we’ll pick them up from the airport and give them a neighborhood guide and maps of San Francisco.” This is how he pitched it to Brian, in an email made famous when it was presented on the TED stage in 2016. Briani thought of a wayto make a few bucks—turning our place into designers bed and breakfast—offering young designers who come into a town a place to crash during the 4 day event, complete with wireless internet, a small desk space, a sleeping mat, and breakfast each morning. Ha! joe Brian was in. Together, they used their design chops to quickly build a simple website. It described who they were, what the idea was—sleep on our living room floor on an air mattress for $80 per night, basically—and all the other stuff they would provide as part of the deal. And when Joe said “they,” he meantthey: Joe and Brian. Which is exactly how it all worked out for the three guests they had space for. “They stayed with us, and we got to show them San Francisco. Theygot to feel like they belonged there in the sense that they didn’t feel like outsiders,” Joe said. Everything their guests did outside of the conference was arranged for or guided by Joe and Brian. If this had been a cruise, they were the shipbuilders, the captains, the social directors, the navigators and engineers, the cooks, and the housekeeping staff, all rolled into two guys. “I’ll never forget saying goodbye,” Joe recalled, “and watching the door click closed and thinking, ‘What if we made it possible for other people to also share their experience and to host guests in their home and show off their city?’” To do that, they would need a much more robust website that required a level of technical expertise that neither Joe nor Brian possessed. With no money to hire programmers, they would need to leverage their network to find one. Fortunately, Joe knew a guy. An engineer with a computer science degree from Harvard named Nate Blecharczyk, who just happened to be the roommate that Brian replaced when he moved in with Joe. After the holidays, Joe gave Nate a call and they met for a drink. “So here we are in January 2008, with an idea and no engineer,” Joe said, “and I tell him about this weekend experiment with these three guests, and he loved the idea.” Eventually, the three of them decided that the perfect time to relaunch Airbedandbreakfast.com would be at the next big tech conference, which happened to be South by Southwest (SXSW) in Austin, Texas, in March. By the time they came to this strategic decision, the conference was less than a month away. The turnaround would be tight, but the opportunity was ideal. “It’s the place where some of the tech greats had launched before us. Twitter had launched there, Foursquare, and others. We were just going to follow the rocket ship that all of them did,” Joe explained. Plus, “every year the same thing happens. The hotels sell out months in advance, [and] people scramble for housing.” What better scenario for an online hospitality platform born from a total lack of hotel room capacity? For the next three weeks, they worked out of Joe and Brian’s apartment, day in and day out, rebuilding the website—Joe doing the design, Nate doing the coding, and Brian doing everything else required to turn an idea into a business.