From there, they were off like a shot, selling online. Lara’s path through the second phase of iteration was appreciably longer than Peter’s, since e-commerce solutions for food products were not as common or as popular in 2000 as they were in 2012. For Lara, it was going to be brick-and-mortar or bust. Still, despite the difference in length, the journey itself was the same. “I would make samples. I mean, batch after batch after batch that I would come up with using a Cuisinart * that I’d had for years but never actually used,” Lara told me. “And I would do a focus group. I would create my own little survey, and I would ask people, ‘What do you eat energy bars for?’ ‘Why do you like them?’ ‘Why don’t you like them?’ Then I would give them my concoctions and say, ‘Please tell me what you think.’” Which is exactly what they did. “They would give me feedback like, ‘I really like the cherry, but I don’t taste cherry in every bite,’ and I would go back and think, ‘I need to add more cherries. Youshould taste cherry in every bite.’” This was her development process for the five flavors—cherry pie, apple pie, banana bread, cashew cookie, and chocolate coconut chew—that she began selling in Denver-area Whole Foods stores in mid-2003. For Gary’s part, a decade before he nearly fell into the opposite of the perfectionist’s feedback trap, which can be equally perilous for a new product in development. “We had many failures,” Gary said of the six-month period after his now-infamous bike ride. “And at times we tried to talk ourselves into them.” They’d tell themselves, “This is great,” having grown tired of all the experimentation and the feedback from Gary’s cycling friends, which was sometimes good, never great, and often really bad. “I would bring some out to my friends in plastic bags and say, ‘Okay, try this but keep it a secret,’ and they would be like, ‘This is terrible.’” That would send Gary back into the kitchen, despite an overwhelming desire at times to declare his new energy bar “good enough.” Finally, after six months of continued sampling, they landed on what they were looking for. “My mom and I just knew,” he said, describing the moment when they finalized the first Clif Bar recipe. “Then you take a risk, and you put a package around it, because you are never sure.” Take one last look around you at all the things you observed at the start of this chapter. The people who made those things were just as unsure as Gary Erickson was when he put a wrapper around the first Clif Bar, slapped a price tag on it, and put it up for sale. They made just as many tweaks in the early stages of development as Tim Brown did, based on gut instinct and personal preference, without knowing whether anyone would like them, let alone care. They ignored doubters like Peter Rahal did. And they stayed long enough in the first phase of iteration without staying too long (or forever), so that when they moved into the second phase for consumer feedback—like Lara Merriken did with her focus groups—they were putting their best foot forward. They were sending a version of their ideaout into the world that they could stand behind and that could itself stand up to the criticism they were inviting. That is the real recipe for success in the iterative process, and one every creator needs to get right if they want to turn their idea not just into a product, but into a business that is poised for real, sustained growth. PART II THE TEST(S) MOST OF THE ENTREPRENEURS I’ve interviewed have a healthy fear of failure. They know it’s possible at any moment. Evenlikely. When it happens—and believe me itwill happen—they certainly don’t like it. It’s not comfortable, and it’s definitely not fun. But that never stops them. Good entrepreneurs—successful ones—have a way of not letting their fear of failure slow them down. They are defined instead by a seemingly inextinguishable belief in their idea—the idea that has pulled them out of their comfort zone and driven them across the unknown to explore new possibilities. They are convinced that, if they can just get there (wherever “there” is), if they can just get their idea off the ground, it will succeed. If. That’s really what entrepreneurs fear at this stage. The uncertainty of whether they will be able to cross that vast space between inspiration and execution, full of tests and traps, twists and turns. A gauntlet that every entrepreneur must pass through, with challenges that are generally the same for everyone, but that take different forms and presentin a different order with each trip across the unknown territory of starting a business. Indeed, every entrepreneurial journey is a new and different story. No two paths are the same. Everyone will proceed through many of the same pivotal points, but your path will inevitably be unique to you, to your idea, and to the time and place through which it passes. Fortunately, it’s never been easier to make this journey than it is right now. So many entrepreneurs have done what you are about to do. You have the chance to prepare for what’s coming your way—if you are willing to learn from these unwitting helpers. They’ve made every mistake. They’ve fallen into every trap. They’ve taken every wrong turn. And the good ones—the successful ones—only made those mistakes, fell into those traps, took those wrong turns . . . once. Because they borrowed from the entrepreneurs who came before them as well. They heard the stories and learned the lessons. Now it’s your turn. 10 Go In Through the Side Door Afunny thing happens when you start to find success with a new business. You suddenly find yourself face-to-face with a host of people who are none too happy to see you. These people have a name. They’re calledcompetitors. And whether they’ll admit it to you or not, many of them will try to do everything within their power to legally—and sometimes not so legally—shut you out. It’s a strategy deployed by the big fish in every pond once they notice a new, young fish swimming around and getting bigger by gobbling up the scraps they previously considered too small to care about. In 1997, as the personal computer business approached 100 million units in annual sales and the dot-com bubble began to grow in earnest, Microsoft was one of the biggest fish in a pond that was about to swamp the world. Late that summer, a Microsoft group vice president named Jeff Raikes sent a now-famous email titled “Go Huskers!” to Warren Buffett, a fellow Nebraska native, describing Microsoft’s business in an effort to get him to invest in the company. In the email, Raikes likens the sturdiness and growth potential of Microsoft’s operation to that of Coca-Cola and See’s Candies (which Buffett had owned since 1972), in no small part because Microsoft’s revolutionary flagship product—the Windows operating system— had created a “toll bridge” that every PC maker would have to cross if they expected consumers to buy their machines. The graphical user interface that made Windows revolutionary also made it wildly popular, which had the additional effect of creating a “moat,” as Raikes described it, between Microsoft and its competitors in the marketplace—one it was able to widen considerably with a 90 percent market share in productivity software applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, etc.) that were built on top of Windows and were equally popular. This, in turn, gave Microsoft tremendous “pricing discretion,” not just for its applications software but also for the licensing fees the company charged to other computer makers for Microsoft’s operating system software. What Raikes did not say in his email, but what Buffett surely understood from his decades of experience, was that the wider the moat and the longer the toll bridge, the more aggressively Microsoft could wield its pricing discretion in order to cement its growing advantage in the software industry. They could use it as a carrot, by lowering the licensing fee for Windows as an incentive to get their browser and applications software preloaded onto as many new PCs as possible. They could use it as a stick, by withholding volume Windows licensing discounts to punish PC makers that refused their sweetheart deal, or by offering their applications software at cost or below in order to drive competitors such as Lotus, Novell, and Corel (remember them?) out of business. Microsoft employed each of those strategies to great effect. A year after Raikes’s email to Buffett, Microsoft would surpass General Electric as the world’s most valuable company and stay in that position for five consecutive years. Toll bridge. Moat. Pricing discretion. These are euphemisms for the economic termbarriers to entry, which is itself a kind of euphemism for all the ways existing businesses shut out competitors and make it difficult for new businesses to compete in a given industry. These barriers are not just conscious strategies deployed by old guard blue-chippers; they are also natural forces that rise and shift within a market as competitors enter and exit, grow and shrink, evolve and pivot. They can become the biggest obstacles you will faceas a new business looking to grab, secure, and expand your foothold in a market, because they are the mechanism by which you will either be crushed (if your competitors see you coming) or ignored (if the market doesn’t). This is why if, like most new businesses, you aren’t doing somethingcompletely novel or you aren’t doing it in atotally new way or new place, you should be thinking long and hard about how else you might enter your market besides knocking on the front door and asking for permission to come in. This is something that female and minority entrepreneurs have long had to contend with, whether it means breaking through glass ceilings or breaking down walls built by prejudice. All of which is to say, figuring out how to sneak in through the side door is not new ground you will have to break. A legion of resourceful geniuses have come before you. And what many of them have discovered is that the side door isn’t just less heavily guarded, it’s often bigger. Or, as Peter Thiel put it in a 2014 lecture at the Stanford Center for Professional Development titled “Competition Is for Losers,” “Don’t always go throughthe tiny little door that everyone’s trying to rush through. Go around the corner and go through the vast gate that no one’s taking.” A year earlier, in Chicago, without fully realizing it, this is precisely what Peter Rahal had begun to do with his idea for a minimalist Paleo protein bar.