The IDEA World Convention brings together more than 10,000 health and fitness professionals from around the world every year. In 2006, armed with dozens of Cordura nylon training straps that he’d developed while deployed overseas as a Navy SEAL and then incubated into a startup during his years at Stanford business school, Randy set up a ten-by-ten-foot booth on the convention floor, rigged and anchored a fake door over which he hung his TRX Suspension Training straps, and for the next three days proceeded to do demonstrations and give instruction to every personal trainer and gym owner who stopped by the booth. “It was a big moment,” Randy explained, “because these trainers are a skeptical lot, and if they think this is really a great thing, then all right, now I’m cooking with some gas.” If they don’t like it, however, if they think it’s dumb or dangerous or ineffective, then that gas Randy would like to be cooking with might turn into a bomb that could very well blow up everything he’d been trying to build since he first came up with the idea for TRX. This is the tricky part about buzz. There’s the good kind and the bad kind. The kind that can build you up or the kind that can burn you down. That’s why demonstrationand explanation are so important, particularly in a case like Randy’s. Imagine if he tried to explain the TRX system to someone using only words. The system consists of two heavy-duty adjustable nylon straps with handles on the end that you can hang over a door frame or a bar and use to do all sorts of bodyweight exercises—pull-ups, push-ups, dips, rows, planks. If you’re lucky enough to have one of those rare minds that can visualize what Randy is describing, it might all sound too good to be true. But if you can look at the straps, and you can see someone like Randydemonstrating them while he explains how they work, it’s adifferent story. Or at least it was for the legion of fitness professionals who caught wind of this new training system on the floor of the IDEA World Convention in 2006. By the end of the first day, Randy sold out his entire stock of TRX straps. That night he called his office to have his assistant ship everything they had left in their shop up in the Bay Area down to his hotel in San Diego. By the second day of the show, the interest in TRX had only grown, and Randy was giving out IOUs to trainers who’d heard the buzz floating around the convention floor, had come to see the straps in action, and didn’t want to wait to lock up their own set. “I was basically selling paper futures,” Randy recalled. “Thank goodness the product arrived on the third day and the people could come and exchange their paper for straps.” Not long after, likely due to the buzz generated at the convention and to the exposure he received from some of the elite personal trainers there, TRX started to find its way into the hands of some athletes. Foremost among them was Drew Brees, who was coming off a rotator cuff injury to his throwing arm that threatened to end his career. The injurydid end his time with his first pro team, the San Diego Chargers, when they tried to lowball him in free agency. “He was doing rehab, and he fell in love with the Suspension Trainer,” Randy said. Then, in the spring of 2006, Brees signed with the New Orleans Saints and reached out to Randy. “He said, ‘Hey, Randy, give me a half dozen of these, and I’ll take them with me. I’ll see if I can get the Saints to start training on them.’” It was an amazing gesture, but the real opportunity for Randy and TRX came when Sports Illustrateddecided to do a feature story on Brees’s comeback. “Drew made sure that the picture they featured was him training on the Suspension Trainer,” Randy said. “And all of a sudden, all the strength and conditioning coaches and the athletes who read Sports Illustratedgot their eyes on this crazy strap and thought, ‘Well, maybe we ought to have a couple of those.’” By 2007, the buzz around TRX had spread from Navy SEAL team rooms at forward operating bases around the globe, to classrooms at Stanford business school, to the convention floor of one of the largest fitness expos in the world, to the pages of the most importantsports publication in the United States. At that point, Randy’s main concern was no longer getting attention but meeting demand. And that is the goal, right? It is not just to get attention for its own sake. The purpose of building buzz is to convert it into product demand, to generate sales. The media, both mainstream and social, are a big part of that conversion process. Randy Hetrick and the Instagram guys certainly relied on media outlets to spread the word about their products, as have many of the entrepreneurs we’ve met so far. Lisa Price got a shout-out on Oprah Winfrey’s talk show. Daymond John and his partners went on Video Music Boxwith Ralph McDaniels. The Airbnb guys went on CNN during the 2008 Democratic National Convention. Even Gary Erickson used traditional media to build buzz for his Clif Bar back in the early nineties, albeit in a characteristically untraditional manner that almost backfired. He took out ads in cycling magazines calling out the only other real player in the market, PowerBar. “The headline was ‘It’s Your Body, You Decide,’” he said. The ads asked the reader whether they wanted refined ingredients or whole ingredients in their energy bars. It even included pictures of both sets of ingredients. “That caused us to be sued immediately,” Gary said, “but it created this buzz in the bicycle industry where people said, ‘Hey, have you heard of Clif bar?’” If there’s one entrepreneur I’ve spoken with who really understands how to leverage all forms of media to build buzz, drive demand, and generate sales, it’s Jen Rubio. Before founding Away, she was the first social media manager for the online eyewear retailer Warby Parker and would eventually run all of their social media by the time she left. Early on, back in 2011, she did things as simple as reply to every message, positive or negative, on the company’s Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, and Instagram feeds (which had just launched when she arrived at Warby Parker), in an effort to create a sense of constant conversation and a growing, vibrant community. When customers posted pictures of themselves in each of the five eyeglass frames they ordered as part of Warby Parker’s home try-on program, she’d repost them on Warby’s official Tumblr and Facebook pages and encourage the community to vote on their favorite. “We’d basically crowdsource what frames people should buy,” she recalled, “and we built a really loyal, really engaged community that just kept growing and growing.” Jen had found a way to convert social media buzz into online buying decisions. She had also seen firsthand what can happen when you get attention from traditional media. A few months before she joined the company—in fact, before Warby Parker even existed as a company—the founders hired a PR firm to get them some prelaunch press. They targeted Vogueand GQ. “We really wanted to be in these premier magazines as a stamp of approval,” Warby Parker co-founder Dave Gilboa said, “but we were really pitching them as exclusive launch partners.” Their pitch worked. Before they even had their e-commerce site live, GQran a piece, that called Warby Parker the Netflix of glasses. The result was tens of thousands of units sold. “Within a four-week period, we sold out of our best-selling styles and we had a wait list of 20,000 customers,” Dave said. But what Jen Rubio took from that experience, and what she applied to the launch of her own business a few years later, was an understanding that “nobody cares what a brand has to say about itself.” With the initial round of friends-and-family money Jen and her partner, Steph Korey, raised, they could have poured whatever they didn’t put into prototype manufacturing into advertising and marketing. But instead, they took a page from the Warby playbook and hired a PR firm. “We knew one of the big things that would set us apart was if we got these other outlets that people trusted, whether it was press or influencers, to tell our story for us,” Jen explained. This was the strategy that guided their prelaunch attempts to get into the holiday gift-buying guides of big magazines like GQand Vogue. When that didn’t work because they got started too late—the magazines had already made their picks, and their suitcases wouldn’t be ready until February of the following year anyway—it inspired Jen and Steph to create a small, glossy, four-color coffee-table book about the world of travel that featured exotic travel stories about and photos of forty tastemakers. They would print only 2,000 copies of the book, the number of suitcases in Away’s first production run, and price it at $225, the retail price of Away’s first suitcase. Each book was essentially a coupon redeemable for one free Away suitcase. “When the books got delivered in these huge boxes,” Jen recalled, “Steph and I looked at each other and we were like, ‘This is either a great idea or we’re going to have these books in this office for eternity.’” The idea to publish an expensive travel book as a way to get attention for a company that sells suitcases was certainly a gamble, but it was one built on a smart strategy for building buzz. “With the tastemakers in the book or with the editors that we reached out to through the PR agency or the social media influencers that I would send messages to asking them to post about us,” Jen said, “all of our efforts in the beginning were trying to getother people to simply talk about us—so that we didn’t have to talk about ourselves as much.” The gamble worked. On November 9, 2015, Jen and Steph woke up to a feature on Vogue ’s website about a new travel brand called Away. By the end of the day, multiple outlets had picked up the Voguestory, and Jen and Steph had sold hundreds of their $225 travel books. Within a couple weeks, they’d sold out the entire 2,000-book print run, which meant they’d sold out their very first production run of suitcases. That’s nearly half a million dollars in revenue generated from a coordinated buzz involving traditional media, social media, tastemakers, and the founders’ personal networks. It’s funny, when Randy Hetrick told me the story of Drew Brees getting his TRX straps into Sports Illustrated, I could feel a visceral sense of relief wash over him, even years later.