They were even paying their sons a good starting wage (for 1986) to work after school and on weekends alongside a couple early hires. Before long, Jerry was lining up investors to open a second store—a scenario that was at least as unlikely and as unexpected as their early success. When Jerry and Janie went to banks for a loan to open the first store, every banker they met with thought they were out of their minds. When they went back to those same banks and told them they wanted to open asecond store, there was even less support. “They laughed at us,” Jerry said. But that didn’t matter, because they already had a lot of people who, as Jerry put it, “just wanted to throw money at us,” including the parents of a number of his sons’ friends. They had heard from their kids how well Five Guys was doing, and they wanted to get behind it. Word of mouth hadn’t just spread about the burgers; it had begun to spread about the business as well. “Eventually, we got about 150 or 200 people who were willing to give us money,” Jerry said. All told, they raised $150,000 from those investors to open the second Five Guys location in a similarly small space—this one in a run-down strip mall in Alexandria, Virginia—and from there it was off to the races. Jerry’s story is not unlike that of Carley Roney and David Liu, who ten years later, in 1996, co-founded The Knot with two of their friends from NYU film school. Originally funded by AOL as a portal to provide wedding content for its members, The Knot broke awayfrom AOL in July 1997, when Carley and David launched Theknot.com on its own, as a full-service wedding planning destination. By then, they already had a quarter million monthly visitors to their little corner of the AOL universe, and they were adding 300 members every day. All within a year. “Once you found us, you wanted to tell anyone you knew who was getting married about us,” Carley said. “People were very loyal and excited about the brand, and so we were growing in that way like wildfire.” By “in that way,” she meant by word of mouth. “Word of mouth was the only way we were marketing,” Carley said. Her co-founder and now husband, David, put an even finer point on it: “We didn’t spend any money on advertising.” It turns out they didn’t need to. The following year, 1998, The Knot clocked $1 million in revenue. The year after that, QVC put in $15 million to help the site expand its suite of products. Within three years, the growth trajectory of The Knot was unmistakably up and to the right, largely propelled by word of mouth. Ten years after The Knot hit its stride, Alli Webb experienced the same kind of growth with her blowout business (which would become Drybar) before she even had a bar to do the drying in. She started it in 2008 as an in-home service called Straight-at-Home by posting on a Yahoo! “mommy” group called Peachhead, which acted as an online resource for about 5,000 moms in the Los Angeles area. “I said, ‘I’m a longtime stylist. I’m thinking about starting a mobile blow-dry business where I’d charge thirty-five or forty dollars. Would anybody out there be interested?’” Alli told me. Moms were more than interested. “I was flooded with emails,” Alli said. Those emails quickly turned into bookings, which then turned into trusted referrals that extended outside the Peachhead mommy community. “I got really busy really fast, and it was very word-of-mouth,” she said. “I’d go and do one mom, and then she would tell like six of her friends. And all of a sudden, they would call me. I got to the point where I was saying no more than I was saying yes.” With a single forum post, Alli Webb hung out a shingle, built her own buzz, and set in motion a word-of-mouth marketing machine that wouldculminate in the opening of the first four Drybar locations less than two years later, in 2010, and eclipse $20 million in annual revenue across twenty-five locations two years after that. That’s three sets of amazing founders in three wildly different industries across three different decades, each of them managing to drive sales and spur growth with no gimmicks and no huge ad spends—just the word of people who used their product and loved it. Amazing! That’s the dream, right? You make something, you give it to someone, they love it and tell all their friends, who tell their friends, and before you know it, you have 1,500 locations like Jerry and Janie Murrell, or 250,000 monthly users like Carley Roney and David Liu, or $20 million in revenue like Alli Webb. Okay, but how does one do this? I expect that’s the question you’re asking right now, having just heard these stories. It’s the same question I had when we first launched How I Built Thisin the fall of 2016. I understood that starting a podcast with NPR would generate a certain amount of buzz that would lift the show from the start. I knew that the news would travel— Hey, did you hear Guy Raz is starting some kind of business podcast about entrepreneurship?— and that a decent number of NPR listeners and fans of TED Radio Hourwould check out at least the first episode or two. But I also knew that we would hit a ceiling eventually if we depended only on the buzz that we built prior to launch. I’d seen it with TED Radio Hourback in early 2013. People loved TED Talks. People were starting to really love podcasts. Put those two things together, and you had a recipe for a very respectable listenership right out of the gate. Except the download numbers for TED Radio Hour, as respectable as they were, stayed somewhat flat for a while. It wasn’t until a few weeks into the show, when people began telling their friends about the podcast and recommending that they listen, that the download numbers started shifting up and across the y- and x-axes of the growth chart. We needed to replicate that word-of-mouth spread for How I Built Thisif it was going to achieve the potential we all believed it had. So back to the big question: How? We know that word of mouth isimportant, but how do we create it? How do we engineer it so more people buy our burgers, visit our website, come to our salon, or, in my case, download our new podcast? I wish I could tell you that there is some kind of formula for creating word of mouth, or that there is an easy growth hack to accelerating its spread. But what I have found in my own experience and from listening to the experiences of entrepreneurs across the spectrum is that there is only one reliable way to engineer word of mouth: you have to make a really good product. Actually, that’s not precisely true. It can’t just be really good. It has to beso goodthat someonehas torecommend it. And because nobody is going to recommend something ordinary, it has to be new and special and leave people with something they can easily share with their friends by way of their recommendation. That’s what I think about when my team and I are putting together every episode of How I Built This. What about this founder’s story is unique? Where are those “wow” moments I talked about earlier that will make this episode truly special and shareable—and a reliable record of a journey that will ultimately end up on the person’s Wikipedia page? * I approach our work on the podcast in this manner not just because I want our listeners to love it, but also because I don’t want to waste their time. Think about it: There are sixteen waking hours in every day. Of those sixteen hours, you will spend eight at work or at school, one to two getting ready and commuting back and forth, another one to two eating and drinking, and another one to two running errands or doing household chores. Assuming you don’t have children, that leaves two to four hours of discretionary time, which I know feels very generous when we think about our daily lives but is still not a lot. So every Monday morning when we release a new episode of How I Built Thisinto the world, what I am essentially asking listeners for is forty-five to sixty minutes, or nearly 25 percent of their precious daily free time. That’s a huge responsibility! One that, if I shirk it, means I am also squandering an opportunity to make a new fan who might beinclined to tell their partner or their co-worker or their best friend about the story they just heard on this podcast they just discovered. Consciously or not, this is a calculation that every successful founder has made in designing and building their business. They figured out a way to do something new, something special, somethinggreat. Something that got people talking. And then spreading the word. Carley Roney and David Liu built, in their words, “the world’s coolest wedding magazine mixed with an online community.” Then, when they realized that “the thing brides seemed to be really vexed about was the whole registry process,” they added an online gift registry, which, like e-commerce itself, was completely new in 1997. They alleviated a huge stressor for brides-to-be and gave them a forum to share information with others working their way through the “wedding industrial complex.” In contrast, there was nothing new about the service Alli Webb was trying to provide with Drybar. She’d been going to her friends’ houses for years to style their hair for parties, weddings, and other important events. But what made her idea special was that it solved a very specific problem that every one of her friends seemed to have: when Alli wasn’t around and they needed a blowout, they either had to go to their expensive cut-and-color salon, where they’d get pressured into things they didn’t need, or trudge down to a discount chain that would inevitably do a mediocre job. “There really are two bad choices out there, and that’s it,” Alli thought at the time. There was no middle path: salon-quality styling at a reasonable price. That was what made Drybar great, what made it special and new. Making a woman look amazing without draining her checking account was all Alli had to do to get a huge portion of her first clients to tell all their friends about her service. On the surface, there was nothing new about burgers and fries either.