In fact, their ubiquity in the American diet was only increasing in 1986 when Jerry and Janie Murrell started Five Guys. The year before, McDonald’s had opened a record 597 new stores, bringing their total store count to nearly 9,000. Wendy’s had bookedrecord annual revenue on the heels of its famous “Where’s the Beef?” campaign, and Carl’s Jr. had finally begun franchising stores. Fast food was on the way up. So what did Jerry do? He went the other way. He slowed things down. He opened a place where the burgers were three or four times as expensive and took that much longer to prepare. “We used to have a sign in one of our stores that said ‘If you’re in a hurry, there are a lot of really good burger places near here,’” Jerry recalled. Everyone told him he was crazy for putting that sign up, “but it helped,” he said. It helped because it was an open proclamation to customers that Five Guys was doing something different than the other guys, something unique. What Jerry and Janie were doing was using the absolute best ingredients they could find to make the tastiest burgers and fries possible. Not the cheapest, not the fastest, not the most complex. Just the best. And even more special, they let their kids decide what that actually meant. “The thinking was that they’re going to pick the best product if they got to pick what they liked,” Jerry said. So they bought the most expensive pickles. They bought buns from the best little bakery in Arlington at the time. They sourced the mayonnaise from a supplier in New York who was impossible to deal with and whom their first purchasing agent begged them to abandon. But they stuck with that supplier because his mayonnaise stuck to the bun and the other ingredients better than the alternatives. They used peanut oil for their french fries, which was the most expensive of all the cooking oil options, but it also produced the tastiest fries. And the potatoes they used for those french fries? Well, they sourced those from a little farm in Rigby, Idaho, because that’s where Thrasher’s in Ocean City, Maryland, got their potatoes for their fries. Thrasher’s was a little boardwalk french fry stand that Jerry and his kids discovered when they first moved to the Washington, DC, area. “There must have been twenty places selling boardwalk fries,” Jerry said, “but only one place had a long line, and that was Thrasher’s. So [I realized] their potatoes must be good.” Jerry and Janie’s commitment to using the best ingredients produced the tastiest burgers and fries, which produced immediate fans in the people who had not experienced anything in the DC area likewhat Five Guys was offering. Yes, burgers and fries weren’t new, but this level of quality sure was. That’s what made them special, remarkable, and ultimately recommendable to anyone who loved a good burger. Just as Alli’s blowouts were to any woman who loved to look great and not break the bank. Just as Carley and David’s online bridal registry and wedding planning community was to anyone who was getting married and unsure of where else to turn. Walt Disney is often quoted as saying, “Whatever you do, do it well. Do it so well that when people see you do it, they will want to come back and see you do it again, and they will want to bring others and show them how well you do what you do.” That, to me, is the unifying characteristic of every founder I’ve met who counts positive word of mouth among the principal reasons for their success. Each of them made something really great, really special. They were so good that they became the signal that broke out from the noise of their competition and reached farther than they could have ever imagined. 14 Survive the Crucible There will come a day well into the entrepreneurial process when you’ll think about quitting. This is normal and something almost everyone I’ve interviewed thought about at some point—even if only fleetingly. You won’t want to quit, you will have made many amazing strides, but you will look out at the landscape, at the path laid out immediately before you, and it will seem obvious that the easiest thing to do is to quit. Some people will even tell you that quitting is thesmartest thing to do, that it is what any right-thinking person would do. Of course, what those people are forgetting is that almost no one starts their own business if they’re in their right mind, so really what good is this advice anyway? In fact, the advice does have some utility—not as advice, mind you, but as a signal that you have officially entered the crucible of your journey. You’ve got the plane built and the engine fired up, but you’re struggling to gain altitude, and you’re not sure why. It is here that you will have a choice to make: Turn back or push forward. Eject or find more power. It has the feel of a do-or-die moment. The poet Robert Frost would say to push forward. You’ve probably seen his famous quote that decorates countless inspirationalmugs, posters, and accounts of Instagram influencers: “The best way out is always through.” Frost wrote this line in his 1915 poem “A Servant to Servants,” about a woman who runs a boardinghouse on a lake with her husband, and who has grown tired “from doing things over and over that just won’t stay done.” She’s begun to indulge fantasies of escaping into nature—she wants to “drop everything and live out on the ground”—but her husband, Len, “looks on the bright side of everything” and says “one steady pull more ought to do it . . . the best way out is always through.” A sentiment she ultimately agrees with, if only because she, too, “can see no way out but through.” You may not be there yet, but as I’ve learned from the founders I’ve interviewed, one day this sentiment will resonate deeply with you. I imagine every successful founder, at one point or another, has related to both characters in Frost’s poem. When they couldn’t seem to make any headway—when the work wouldn’t stay done—they may have wanted to throw it all away and go live in a shack in the woods. But when they looked at all they’d built, how far they’d come, and all the people who counted on them, they decided to recommit to “one steady pull more,” because that was going to be the pull that would finally get them out and through. This is where Gary Hirshberg was for much of the 1980s as he and his partner, Samuel Kaymen, struggled to get their company, Stonyfield Farm, out of the red and into the black. From the very beginning, Stonyfield was the crème de la crème of yogurt, quite literally. It was the number one plain, cream-on-top, whole milk yogurt in every market that stocked it pretty much from the day Gary and Sam started getting retail placement. Yet no matter what they did, they couldn’t seem to turn a profit. At first this was because they had only one product—six-packs of plain, whole milk quarts—which they sold more or less at cost in order to get their foot in the door at Harwood’s Market, the local grocery store in Wilton, New Hampshire. This brought in revenue right away, but never enough to get ahead. “The product was selling through,” Gary said, “but any money that came in we used to pay forgrain to feed the cows or to buy lubrication, equipment, fuel, wood, whatever.” Typical startup costs for a yogurt business, I guess you’d call them. Five months in, the duo had done $50,000 in sales but were $75,000 in debt. They’d run out of cash and couldn’t keep up with the demand for their product, which continued to grow. “The Harwood’s people called and said, ‘Gosh, you know this is good, it’s selling,’” Gary remembered, “so I did what any self-respecting entrepreneur does: I called my mother, and I borrowed $30,000.” And he would continue borrowing money, from his mother and his wife’s mother and literally hundreds of others, numerous times, for various reasons, to the tune of more than $2 million by the time it was all said and done. Their second year in business, 1984, Gary and Sam found a way to crack into other grocery chains and natural food co-ops in New England, and they were producing 360 cases of yogurt a week and doing $250,000 in sales. But by summer they were nearly broke again. Gary’s solution was to raise $500,000 to expand their plant so they could move beyond plain quarts into small, individual serving cups and flavored yogurts. Having enough money to simply pay their bills wasn’t going to get Gary and Sam out of this hole they continually found themselves in. They had togrow their way out of it. (Very Frostian, right?) So that Thanksgiving, Gary started his fundraising by borrowing $50,000 from his future mother-in-law, Doris, whom Meg, his future wife, had just introduced him to for the first time that weekend! The following year, Stonyfield sales increased again, to $500,000, and to meet demand they started sourcing milk from outside dairies (a decision that, paradoxically, involved selling their own cows). But their operation was still week-to-week. “I always had payroll on Thursday mornings, and by this point it was about a $5,500 payroll,” Gary said, “and I never had cash in the bank the night before.” So on numerous occasions, he would sneak out of bed in the middle of the night, walk down the hall to his office, and call his mother-in-law to see if he might be able to borrow another couple thousand dollars tomake ends meet for the week. It got so bad, and became such a regular occurrence, that eventually Meg caught on to what was happening and stepped in. “One night I heard theclick-clickof call waiting on my mother in law’s phone,” Gary recounted, “and Meg was calling from the house phone to say ‘Mom, don’t do this.’” If you’re Gary Hirshberg and you’re two or three years into this business, with a product that everyone loves but that you can’t seem to get sufficient lift from, and your spouse basically throws up her hands and says “Stop the insanity!” how do younot stop? Especially when you agree with her. “She was living a nightmare,” Gary said. “She saw how crazy it was. We had chimney fires, we had the well pump go out, the power go out, we were on this hilltop farm a long way from anywhere. It was insane.” And yet, Gary would keep going, and things would only get more insane.