At one point in the class, as he talked about how leaders can effect meaningful change in their organizations, he sketched out his now-famous ballroom metaphor of the dance floor and the balcony. The idea is that when you’re down on the dance floor, your focus tends to be on your partner and on not colliding with other dancers spinning around you, which can often leave you with the impression that the ballroom is a crowded, chaotic environment to which you must be prepared to react. But if you remove yourself, find your way up to the balcony, and look down on the dance floor, the view is completely different, often in ways you never could have expected. Sometimes the floor isn’t nearly as crowded as it felt at ground level. Other times it gets crowded, but only in a particular set of circumstances. Inevitably, patterns emerge, and before long behavior that at first felt chaotic now seems predictable. This is Heifetz’s strategy for facing the challenges of leadership through crisis, through times of struggle and uncertainty, whether you play sports or command an army or run a business. To know what to do, you need to have atrue understandingof your situation. And, as Heifetz has written, “the only way you can gainboth a clearer view of reality and some perspective on the bigger picture is by distancing yourself from the fray.” The trick is in taking that perspective back down to the dance floor with you and then applying it to the challenges that sent you up to the balcony in the first place. And make no mistake, it is a trick, because your instinct when you’re caught up in the struggle is to resist removing yourself from the action. You’ll need to have just enough wherewithal to let someone or something take you there. The Airbnb guys had Paul Graham at Y Combinator. He’s the one who made them zoom out and recognize that their biggest pool of users was in New York City, and if they were going to solve their growth problems, the solution was likely there, not in Silicon Valley. Gary Hirshberg and Samuel Kaymen didn’t have a Paul Graham, but whatthey did have was the entrepreneurial version of a near-death experience that took them out of their bodies and forced them to reckon with the carcass of a business that the Vermont dairy had left bloodied and dying on a conference room floor after changing the terms of the deal that was supposed to save Stonyfield. Only then was there enough distance from the daily grind, from the weekly payroll anxiety, to recognize the space that was there for them to build their own plant and to solve their own capacity problems. When that day comes for you, when you think seriously about quitting for the first time, getting some true perspective is going to be the thing that gives you the courage to push forward. At the end of “A Servant to Servants,” Robert Frost’s boardinghouse heroine finally admits, to herself and to the visitor with whom she is having this conversation, that she’s not going to give it all up and run away to live in the woods. She can’t. She doesn’t have it in her. It’s not who she is. “Bless you, of course, you’re keeping me from work,” she says. “But the thing of it is, I need tobe kept. There’s work enough to do—there’s always that.” This, to me, is what unifies every successful founder who has survived the crucible of growth, who has endured through the trough of sorrow and fought for product-market fit, and who has chosen not to quit but to push forward. All of them have done whatever it takes to stay alive, to make it another day, to get their product on shelves, to get customers in the door, to get vendors paid, to get investors to write checks. All in the hope that, as they stand on the balcony and survey the dance floor below, whatever they realize they have to do today, or they might have to do tomorrow, is that one steady pull more that will finally get them out and through. 15 Fund the Business, Part 3: Professional Money Not every founder can build a unicorn. Nor should they need to. There’s nothing wrong, for example, with running a small business with a few employees that you bootstrap until you retire and either hand down or sell off. Not only is it not wrong, it’s actually the norm. The vast majority of American small businesses have fewer than twenty employees (if they have any employees at all) and generate annual revenues somewhere between $300,000 and $2 million. Indeed, most of the entrepreneurs I’ve met over the years aimed at just this kind of success. They weren’t particularly focused on all the things that come with scaling a business, such as limitless growth, total market disruption, and raising loads of professional money. But if scaleis your goal and bank loans and cash flow can’t get you there, you will, at some point, find yourself engaging with the venture capital world. There are only so many ways to get a resource-intensive business off the ground, after all. This can be a daunting prospect for many entrepreneurs, since venture capital has a reputation as being a closed world that operates in small pockets on both coasts (Silicon Valley and Midtown Manhattan) with unwritten rules and unfamiliar terminology that feels impenetrable to anyone accustomed to speaking in plain, clear language. There are angels and seed rounds; cap tables and exits; Series A, B, and C dilution and preferred shares; burn rate and run rate. There are VCs and PE guys; FINRA and NASD and the SEC. There’s vesting, investing, and just plain vests. So many vests! It’s enough to make a founder’s head spin. And that’s kind of the point. All these fuzzy, poorly defined terms are left deliberately vague in order to create and maintain opacity, lest you discover the one thing about VCs they don’t want you to know: that they’re human, just like the rest of us. And just like you and me, they aren’t seers or superheroes. In fact, the most successful ones are usually the luckiest ones—lucky to have access to promising businesses early on, and lucky to have access to so much money that they can makea lotof bad bets and still find success in the end. To put it simply, VCs—even the most experienced ones—get it wrong more than they get it right. I mention this not to sow doubt in your mind, not to scare you, but rather to prepare you. Because this chapter isn’t actually abouthow to raiseprofessional money; it’s abouthow to think about raisingprofessional money once you’ve determined that you might need it. It’s about understanding the world of professional money and the mind-set of professional investors, from the perspective of those who’ve been through the process, so that you know what to expect when you walk in the room, for better or for worse. Like Jenn Hyman who, in 2009, went out to raise a $1.75 million seed round for an online designer dress rental business she called Rent the Runway, where women could browse dresses that might cost thousands of dollars to buy, but that they could rent for a fraction of the cost. A dress would then show up at a customer’s home, she’d wear it for whatever occasion had brought her to the site to begin with, and then she’d ship the dress back when she was done with it. It was like Zipcar meets Netflix meets Zappos, with what would eventually become the country’s largest dry-cleaning service on the back end. Today, Rent the Runway has more than 1,200 employees and does more than $100 million in revenue, but in 2009 the responses Jenn and her co-founder, Jennifer Fleiss, got from investors were less than encouraging, sometimes even startling. “We had several different very condescending conversations,” Jenn told me, “one in which a partner at a very prestigious firm took my hand into his and said, ‘This is so adorable. You’re going to get to wear such pretty dresses. This must be so fun for you.’” They did not engage with this investor or his firm ever again, but the exchange was the most egregiously arrogant and dismissive example of a whole set of responses they received from the predominantly male venture capital class. “Most investors said, ‘Let me talk to my wife,’ ‘Let me talk to my daughter,’ or ‘Let me talk to my admin.’ Those were the three target customers that we would hear about,” Jenn said. On the surface, that sounds like a reasonable response, right? What do a bunch of men in their forties and fifties know about dresses? Probably nothing, but theyare supposed to know about business, and they were ignoring that part of the equation in their responses to Jenn and Jennifer, as if the business model or the business plan were irrelevant. As if the business-worthiness of Jenn’s idea had already been foreclosed by the potential investors’ lack of familiarity with the underlying product. Not only that, in deferring to the women in their lives, these investors weren’t even consulting the right demographic cohorts. “Let me tell you why each [of the ‘target customers’] is problematic,” Jenn said. “Number one, the wife of a venture capitalist is a multimillionaire. She can afford to buy any dress she wants, so she is not my target customer, right? The daughter of a venture capitalist in most cases is about twelve, because most venture capitalists are, when they’re in the prime of their careers, in the forty-five-to-fifty range. So their daughter is not a great target either. And the admins who work in the venture capital industry, because it’s such a prestigious job, are often women who are in their fifties and sixties—again, not women who were in my target demo.” If an investor didn’t have experience with the product and didn’t know anyone in the target demo, it seemed as if the idea wasn’t for them—or, worse, it wasn’t an idea worth pursuing at all. Afterenough of these conversations, Jenn and Jennifer began preempting investor responses to their pitch altogether. “We showed them videos and invited them to some of our pop-ups to show them who the customer was so that they really got a sense for who we were catering to,” Jenn said. The pop-ups were revelatory. They were what convinced Jenn in the early going that this idea had legs, and they were ultimately what got the idea to click with a good number of investors. “You saw the facial expressions of women change,” Jenn said of her experience witnessing pop-up customers try on her dresses.