His resoluteness down this path was costly. By the time it was all over, Johnson & Johnson had spent $100 million on the recall and the relaunch with tamper-proof packaging. Their net incomefor the first quarter after the poisoning was off more than 25 percent. By the end of the year, Tylenol’s share of the market had plummeted from a high of 37 percent all the way down to 7 percent. “There were many peoplein the company who felt there was no possible way to save the brand, that it was the end of Tylenol,” Burke said. Of course, that would not end up being the case. The fact that Tylenol rebounded was not in itself remarkable; what was astounding was the speed with which the recovery occurred. Within two months, Johnson & Johnson’s stock price had returned to pre-poisoning highs. Within eight months, Tylenol had recovered 85 percent of its previous share of the pain reliever market, and by the end of 1983, Tylenol had recaptured nearly all of it. Credit for Tylenol’s miraculous recovery sits entirely with James Burke and his ability to act quickly, decisively, transparently, and in a manner consistent with the values of the company, which had been baked into the Johnson & Johnson credo pretty much since its founding in the late 1880s: “We believe our first responsibilityis to the patients, doctors and nurses, to mothers and fathers and all others who use our products and services.” “The credo made it very clear . . . exactly what we were all about,” Burke said of those first days immediately after the seven tragic deaths. “It gave me the ammunition I needed to persuade shareholders and others to spend the $100 million on the recall.” It also allowed him to build trust with consumers—whom “the credo is all about,” Burke said—as Johnson & Johnson worked through the crisis over several months. Trust was at the core of everything Burke did. He trusted his team inside Johnson & Johnson to do the right thing, and he trusted the public to respond accordingly. Trust was how they were able to build Tylenol into such a “big and important franchise,” Burke believed. Trust was “an operative word” in his everyday life. It embodied “almost everything you canstrive for that will help you to succeed.” Time would prove James Burke right, but even he knew that Johnson & Johnson was in a privileged position when it came to absorbing the financial hit and reputational damage incurred from this fatal product tampering. “Often our society rails against bigness,” Burke said at the time, “but this has been an example where size helps. If Tylenol had been a separate company, the decisions would have been much tougher.” That is what makes Jeni Britton Bauer’s choices in April 2015 so noteworthy. In 2015, Jeni’s Splendid Ice Creams had been in business for nearly thirteen years. It was by then very well-known around central Ohio, where Jeni is from. Its revenue was a mere fraction of that of a business like Tylenol, but it was meaningfully profitable—surprisingly so, some might say—for a business of its size, profile, and character. Jeni and her three partners had a half dozen scoop shops. They sold to high-end grocery stores and did a brisk mail-order business. But what set them apart, and what made their success so remarkable, was Jeni’s almost maniacal focus on quality. She was obsessive about how and where she sourced ingredients. She spent countless hours experimenting with the molecular structure of the milk proteins to make sure her ice cream had a very specific mouthfeel. She paid dogged attention to all the little things that cost a lot of money and cut into the margins of a business in an industry that had not experienced any kind of artisanal renaissance since Ben & Jerry’s in the late 1970s and so was subject to commoditization and constant downward pressure on price. Still, Jeni persisted in her quest for perfect ice cream flavors and in 2011 wrote a cookbook about them that received national attention. Her company landed back on the national map once more in March 2015 when it launched a series of ice creams based on colors from the Henri Matisse Cut-Outsshow at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, while at the same time opening its first store in Los Angeles—its most competitive market and the farthest from its headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, to date. “We were riding high,” Jeni said, “and then one day we get this bomb dropped on us. A pint of ice cream in Lincoln, Nebraska, tested positive for listeria.” Listeria is a foodborne bacteria that can cause fever, muscle aches, nausea, and diarrhea, and can be fatal to immunosuppressed individuals such as the elderly, the chronically sick, and pregnant women. Its presence in your product is not the news you ever want to get, especially when it feels like your business has turned a corner, when it has survived that crucible of early growing pains, built a recognizable brand, and seems primed for long-term success. “It was the call none of us could have imagined,” Jeni said. Immediately, she found herself in the same position James Burke had found himself in thirty-three years earlier. The day the news broke that the deaths in Chicago were linked to Tylenol, Burke and his team huddled at Johnson & Johnson’s New Brunswick, New Jersey, headquarters to decide their next moves. The day Jeni’s partner, John Lowe, the company’s CEO, got the call about the contaminated pint of ice cream in Lincoln, the Jeni’s team huddled in their headquarters to decide what they would do. “We had to make a lot of decisions very quickly over a very short period of time,” Jeni said, reminiscent of James Burke’s thinking. “Nobody was sick that we knew of yet, but we needed to prevent an outbreak. We had to decide what we were going to do.” They chose to shut down production and to recall everything, which initially they didn’t even know how to do, because if something like this has never happened to you before, why would you? “We figured out how to do it, we filed paperwork and got approval from the FDA, and within hours we had 265 tons of ice cream that had been out in the world coming back to us,” she said. Which meant, with no ice cream out in the world and no way of making new ice cream until they found the source of the listeria, they would have to close all their stores, too. In 1982, Tylenol’s sales dropped by 80 percent, but not to zero, because they had other non-capsule products they could sell. But in 2015, ice cream was it for Jeni’s. Their sales went to zero in an instant. While their stores were closed and their machines were quiet, they lost $150,000 per day. “At that point, the clock starts ticking,” Jeni said. Ticking down, toward zero. “We have 600 employees who now have nothing to do—including me, actually. We started to look around, realizing that that was it, there wasn’t anything left.” But, in fact, therewas something left: the loyal community that Jeni; her husband, Charly Bauer; her brother-in-law, Tom Bauer; and their CEO, John Lowe, had built over the previous decade. “We raised our companyas a community andwith our community, slowly,” Jeni said. They were a staple of the North Market food hall, where Jeni’s Splendid Ice Creams was founded, for three years before they opened their first stand-alone scoop shop in 2005. They opened three additional shops in the next three years, all in or around Columbus. They didn’t expand outside the Columbus area until 2011, and even then it was only to Cleveland, less than 150 miles away. Jeni’s belonged to Columbus. * Jeni and her company were one of theirs. “There was a lot of trust built into that,” Jeni said. “And that’s what saved us.” There’s that word again: “trust.” James Burke had to build trust with consumers on the fly, in real time, as he managed the Tylenol poisoning crisis. Jeni Britton Bauer had smartly baked trust into her brand, which soon gave her the confidence that, as long as shemade good decisions, things would never get as bad as they otherwise could. The first indication of her customers’ trust in her came almost immediately, when they started to paste notes of encouragement on the closed front doors of local Jeni’s stores. “We had these wonderful people who would put Post-it notes up at the stores, and they were so beautiful,” Jeni recounted during our conversation in early 2018, less than three years removed from the listeria contamination. “We were just like, ‘You know what? We’re fighting forthat. ’” Eventually, they discovered the source of the listeria. It was coming from a hairline crack in a wall behind a piece of equipment in their 2,000-square-foot manufacturing facility. Jeni’s team quickly fixed the problem and prepared to resume production at the previous level. But like James Burke, merely fixing the problem wasn’t enough for Jeni Britton Bauer. This was a woman, after all, who did not justmake ice cream; shereinvented it. She did not settle for canned peaches to make her peach cobbler ice cream (my personal favorite, and one I will drive miles to get a scoop of if I’m anywhere near a Jeni’s scoop shop); she scoured the country for the best peach purveyors she could find. Whereas Burke introduced triple-seal tamper-proof packaging to all Tylenol products, Jeni published an open letter on the company blog at the end of August 2015. The letter outlined every single thing that had happened; described their ice cream–making process so consumers knew how the whole thing worked; announced the hiring of a new quality control leader, whom she described as a “Food Safety Jedi”; and revealed that, as part of their newly instituted listeria control program, they’d done “almost 200 swabs every dayfor two months—almost 1,000 timesbeyond the industry recommendation—in order to understand where the Listeria was coming from and eliminate it.” It was the ultimate gesture in transparency, but also an act of faith, one anchored in mutual trust. It was not unlike the trust in the public that drove James Burke’s openness with the news media, which was not only uncharacteristic for the time but also out of character for Johnson & Johnson, which had a reputation for keeping the media at arm’s length when it came to any information they considered sensitive. No matter what their natural tendencies might have been, both Jeni and James knew that their decisions in these moments of crisis were pivotal, because such a moment can often be an inflection point in the trajectory of a business, for better or for worse.