The weather began to change. “It gets a little cold in New England in September and October,” Stacy said in the understatement of the year, “and that was when we decided that we would have to do something else.” She didn’t mean something elseas a business, at least not initially. Things had gone well for Stacy’s D’Lites in 1996, which was their first year in business. They’d made $25,000, which doesn’t sound like a lot, but for a two-person food cart open five days a week, with sweltering summers and frigid winters further limiting a consistent flow of customers, $25,000 counted as real success. What Stacy meant wassomewhere else to run their business out of—specifically, an indoor location. Stacy and Mark didn’t need anything huge, by any means. They just wanted a space big enough to make sandwiches and to bake pita chips and that would allow them to serve their downtown clientele comfortably year-round. So they started working with a realtor who, when Stacy told them what they were looking for, basically laughed in their faces. “If you want a tiny little indoor location near where you are,” the realtor said, “you can get in line behind Au Bon Pain and Dunkin’ Donuts.” What Stacy didn’t know was that as the weather got cold thatyear and the ground began to harden, it also began to shift as the commercial real estate market for small storefronts in big cities was heating up. The wave Stacy and Mark were riding wasn’t just sandwich wraps, the realtor’s response was telling them; it was grab-and-go food service generally, and it was the big chains that were behind it, pushing the wave ashore. “At the time, Starbucks was coming into the world,” Stacy explained, “and everybody wanted those little spaces.” As fall turned to winter, their real estate search didn’t get any easier. Spots downtown close to where they’d established themselves outdoors were getting snapped up quickly or were out of their price range. They went down the road a ways on a possible deal for a café inside Macy’s department stores—she cleverly dubbed it “Stacy’s at Macy’s”—but it was a much bigger project than they originally intended to undertake, and it began to fall apart as Macy’s corporate in New York made things too complicated. So, in January 1997, Stacy and Mark incorporated the pita chip company and started to figure out what would be required to bring the chips to market. At the same time, they ran Stacy’s D’Lites and continued to search for small, inside locations. They ran both businesses for a full year—making pita sandwiches to order out of their retrofitted hot dog cart on weekdays and spending the rest of their time working on perfecting the chip recipe, designing the packaging, securing all the necessary licensing, and getting the product into stores. Eventually, they realized that they had to choose one pathway or the other. “It was just getting to be too much to do both,” Stacy said. They chose pita chips for a few reasons. “Come winter, it’s really rough being out there in the cold,” Stacy said, “and we could get bigger, faster, if we were able to sell these chips to some stores [rather] than if we tried to expand on one, two, or three locations of the food cart.” This was true not just because the capital required to build out a brick-and-mortar retail business is much greater than it is for a consumer packaged goods business. But also because, in 1997, by shifting to an all-natural snack food with “nothing in them,” as Stacy described her preservative-free chips, she was able to hop from onewave (grab-and-go food) that was about to swallow her up to another wave (natural foods) that was just starting to gather significant momentum. It was the same wave, actually, that Gary Hirshberg rode to $100 million in sales with Stonyfield Farm. “People were all into natural foods, and that’s just what we were innately doing,” Stacy said. “So when we first started, we were selling to little gourmet food stores and then to the natural food markets.” The exact same markets as Stonyfield Farm, as a matter of fact—New England’s Whole Foods antecedent, Bread & Circus, which had about a half dozen stores at the time. “I walked into Bread and Circus in downtown Boston, and I said, ‘Hi, I’m Stacy. These are my chips, and I’d love for you to give them a try,’” Stacy recounted. The manager loved them; then he ordered them for his store and brought them to the attention of Bread & Circus headquarters, which placed orders for all the other stores. By 2001, Stacy’s Pita Chips was doing $1 million in revenue. By 2003, the chips were in Costco and Sam’s Club. And by 2005, less than a decade after Stacy and Mark opened up their little sandwich cart on the edge of Boston’s financial district, they sold $65 million worth of the same chips they used to give away. Stacy’s Pita Chips was officially acquired—reportedly for $250 million—by PepsiCo early the following year. Stacy and Mark’s first few years are a study in both the gradualness and suddenness of change. One moment they felt like they were ahead of the curve in a growing movement, and the next it seemed like their ambitions were going to get flattened by massive competitors intent on capturing as much of their respective markets as quickly as possible by gobbling up the only kind of retail spaces Stacy and Mark could afford. Their pivot from pita sandwiches to Stacy’s Pita Chips is a textbook example of a response to that change in the market, made both out of necessity and with an eye toward opportunity. That seems to be the recipe for every successful pivot—not just the recognition that you can’t keep doing what you’re doing if you want to grow or survive, but also identifying something else to do and/or some other place to do it. That’s how it was for Justin Kan, Emmett Shear, and Twitch, the livestreaming video platform that got its start in March 2007 as Justin.tv, a single 24-7 live feed of its creators’ lives. Like Stacy’s D’Lites, Justin.tv found success right away, but on a much larger scale. The creators got a ton of national press for starting the “lifecasting” revolution, which quickly drew hundreds of thousands, then millions of unique monthly users. But by that summer, the ongoing, constant exposure had started to drive Justin insane, so he had to stop. Fortunately, Justin.tv’s CEO, Emmett Shear, said, “lots of other peoplewanted to stream live, and the technology we built to support the live video stream was actually broadly useful, so we pivoted to being a service that anyone could use.” The result was rapid growth. By April of the following year, they had 30,000 broadcaster accounts and multiple categories for users to search and explore. Justin.tv evolved along these lines for the next few years, adding millions of users and dozens of channels as they went. By 2011, though, the founders had “capped out growth and didn’t know what to do next,” Shear recounted in a talk at a Brainstorm Tech dinner put on by Fortunemagazine in early 2019. At the same time, they realized that one of their video categories—Gaming—was drawing more users than all of the others combined. That was no surprise to Shear. “The only content on Justin.tvthat I watched was the gaming content, because that’s the only thing that I actually enjoyed,” he told the Brainstorm Tech audience. So they decided to spin it off into a sister site called Twitch.tv and, not unlike Stacy Madison and Mark Andrus with their chips business, to run both in parallel. They did that until 2014, when Twitch finally got so massive that they pivotedagain, this time shifting the entire company over to Twitch, rebranding it as Twitch Interactive, and shutting down Justin.tv completely. To be clear, they didn’t shutter Justin.tv because it was failing. Far from it. It was just not succeeding at the same level as Twitch, nor was it growing at the rate or to the size that Twitch was growing. This is by far the most interesting aspect—and, I think, one of the most important characteristics—of so many of the pivot stories that I have heard from founders directly or that have become business school and Silicon Valley lore. Rarely, it seems, do companies pivot from failure to success. They don’t go from a bad idea to a good idea. Rather, they go from a good idea to a great one. Even Instagram, one of the most famous pivot stories, wasn’t the result of its predecessor, a check-in app called Burbn, failing or being a bad idea. It had a small user base, sure, but its founders had raised $500,000 in venture capital, and the app did have a feature (photos, of course) that everyone liked using. The problem for Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger was simply that Burbn wasn’t goodenough or growing fastenough. And, as Justin.tv experienced with gaming content at almost the exact same moment, people loved a particular feature of the app more than the app itself. That is what inspired their pivot. Same story with Jane Wurwand and Dermalogica. Her skin care school, the International Dermal Institute, was never failing. “I had full classes with wait lists,” Jane said. “People were flying from San Francisco, they were flying from Phoenix, they were coming from Nevada. They were meeting each other, they were rooming together, they were forming friendships.” The idea was working. Her problem, as Tristan Walker would say, is that “ youdon’t scale.” Jane was only one person, and the Dermal Institute was only one location, so the growth potential for the business was inherently limited. A skin care line, on the other hand, had virtually unlimited potential, because at that time in America, “there was nothing in the salon industry,” and everything her students were using when they returned to their salons were products from Europe. That gap in the market—American-made skin care products—was “the big opportunity,” Jane said, that triggered an immediate pivot and changed her business virtually overnight. What makes all of these pivots so impressive to me is that they also represented an evolution in the mind-set of the entrepreneurs who made them. So much of getting to this point has been about doing whatever it takes, often alone, to turn the dream into a reality; it’s been about nurturing the seed of the idea in your mind, protecting it from doubters or competitors, in the hope that one day it willblossom into a real business. And what Stacy and Mark, Kevin and Mike, and Jane confronted in their respective pivotal moments was the realization that the work they did to grow theirideas was fundamentallydifferent fromthe work they now had to do to grow theirbusinesses.