That was the case for Stewart Butterfield in 2012, when he made the excruciating decision to shut down a massively multiplayer online game called Glitch. He’d been developing the game for a few years with the help of venture capital and a team of engineers, designers, and coders—all of which, money and manpower alike, he’d secured on the strength of his reputation as the successful co-founder of the online photo-sharing service Flickr, which had been acquired by Yahoo! in 2005. That was in itself a pivot from Stewart’sfirst attempt at designing an online game in 2002—a never-ending massively multiplayer online game he called . . . wait for it . . . Game Neverending. As it was for Emmett Shear, gaming was Stewart’s true passion, and like Justin.tv in its time, Game Neverending was incredibly innovative for the early days of Web 2.0. Ten years later, Stewart’s ambitions for Glitch were the same. “It was completely different than anything that anyone had ever seen before,” Stewart said. “It was much more open-ended and cooperative. The look was kind of like Dr. Seuss meets Monty Python meets modern-day graphic novels, where we really tried to encourage individual creativity.” Their encouragement was effective. A population of dedicated gamers—in the thousands, Stewart estimated—loved Glitch right from the beginning, even its earliest iterations in 2009–2010. “We had a bunch of really positive early indications, so we charged people money,” he said. “The average person was paying $70 a year.” They also got hundreds of thousands of people to sign up to try the game. This, paradoxically, is where those early positive indications started to tip negative, because a significant portion of the interest in their game was actually just a product of an increased fascination with online games in general. “Simultaneously and totally independent of us, FarmVille and Zynga and all of these casual games became a huge thing,” Stewart said. The upside was that online games “became a thing that investors really believed in. It wassuddenly worth billions and billions of dollars,” which meant that securing VC money was no sweat for the gaming entrepreneur and creator of Flickr. He raised $17.5 million without too much trouble. The downside was that with this surge in interest for online gaming, thekinds of games that were finding massive sustained success were much more down the middle than Glitch. “It was really hard for us to get people even to go through the first few minutes of the game because it was just so different and so weird,” Stewart said. “Most people who tried it were like, ‘What the hell is this?’ and they would leave after three minutes.” Their solid sales funnel had turned into what’s commonly called a “leaky bucket.” And the leaky bucket wasn’t working. This is how the funnel was supposed to work: “First people hear about your thing, then they go to the website, then they sign up, then they play the game a little bit. In each of those stages, some people fall out of the process—that’s why it’s called the funnel—but then some end up paying you.” But with Glitch’s leaky bucket, people were falling out of the top of the funnel before they even got close to a place in the process where they could pay if they wanted to. “Not enough of them made it all the way through,” Stewart said. “It was always the next thing that was going to fix it—the next game dynamic we added, the next bit of customization. But as we continued to try those things, we never found the magic formula that would make them stick with it.” By 2012, Stewart realized Glitch wasn’t going to work. “It was never going to become the kind of business that would justify $17.5 million of venture capital investment,” he said pointedly. So one night he drafted a letter to his co-founders and to the Glitch board of directors to inform them of his decision. The next morning he went in to the office and called an all-hands meeting. “Before I could even get the first half of the first sentence out, I was crying,” he said. “Almost everyone in the room I had personally convinced they should come work at this company, that they should accept our stock options, that they should believe in the project, that they should believe in me. There was a real sense that I had failed all these people.” Unlike Stacy Madison and Mark Andrus, who read the writing on the wall and made their move before their fate was sealed by the Dunkin’ Donuts and Starbucks of the world; or Jane Wurwand, who saw a gap in the market that she was uniquely suited to move into; or even Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, who knew photos were what made Burbn interesting, not the check-in functionality, Stewart Butterfield had no idea what, if anything, he had left to show for himself after he ended Glitch besides millions of frames of game-specific animation and hundreds of hours of original music intended to accompany it. What could he possibly do with any of that stuff? It took him about a week to figure out what they really had. “So the interesting thing about Glitch,” Stewart said, “was that while it wasn’t successful as a business, we were extraordinarily productive because of this system for internal communication that we had developed.” This system didn’t have a name. They never discussed it as something separate from the communication that occurred on it. “We didn’t even think about it as a thing,” Stewart said. It was just something they’d built for their own purposes, around the concept of a channel, that was “an inversion of the typical interoffice communication,” that gave any employee access to the entire history of the company’s workflow-related conversations, regardless of when they joined the company. Something that was not possible with standard email-based communication systems where, when you joined a company, you basically started at in-box zero. “It was only once we decided to shut down the game that we realized we would never work without a system like this again and thought maybe other people would like it, too,” Stewart observed. This system, or idea, would become Slack, which today is a multibillion-dollar cloud-based collaboration software business. But at the time, it was difficult for Stewart and his team to pitch this concept to prospective enterprise customers because they didn’t really understand how this idea was, at its core, an organic pivot. They thought it was just this ancillary thing over to the side, connected to their original business but unrelated to it philosophically. It’s understandable. How do you construct a through line between a complicated online game and a piece of enterprise middleware? The truth was, they didn’t need to construct it, because it was already there in the form of the true motivating force behind everything Stewart Butterfield had done, beginning all the way back in 2002, in Vancouver, British Columbia, where he got his start. “There were two massively multiplayer games,” Stewart said of Game Neverending and Glitch, “and there was massively multiplayer photo-sharing with Flickr. Slack is just massively multiplayer communications at work.” That was the real seed of the ideas Stewart pursued: massively multiplayer collaborative systems. Every pivot he ever made had that seed at its core. It’s also what kept the Glitch founding team together and what eventually drew so many of the employees who faced layoffs at Glitch back into the fold. “I just like making software, and I like doing it with these other people,” Stewart said. “They all like making software as well. And the more we worked, the more we realized this all actually totally makes sense.” It takes an immense amount of emotional maturity, no matter how old you are, to recognize that the business you are leading is bigger and more important than the idea ( youridea!) on which that business was originally built. It takes humility to accept that the idea itself maybe isn’t what you thought it was, or that it has evolved gradually, then suddenly, away from what you intended it to become while you were busy managing the business growing on top of it. And it takes real courage to make that move away from the familiar and toward the new—especially in those instances where your good idea is starting to look not so good, and it doesn’t appear as if you have anywhere to go or anything even remotely related to your business to take with you. PART III THE DESTINATION IN MANY WAYS, the scariest part of entrepreneurship is success. It’s reaching your destination, your objective. Because that’s when the work really starts. When you’ve got to decide: What now? What next? Do you keep moving and do it again? Do you stick around? Do you build? Whatdo you build? How big? With what? And why? Getting here was difficult enough. The anxiety that comes with the responsibility of continued success isn’t making things any easier. Why continue to put yourself through all this? These questions are difficult to answer. And the answers are often hard to get exactly right. Because in the beginning, all you’re worried about is trying to survive. You’re not aiming for perfection; you’re just hoping to avoid pitfalls. You’re not thinking about legacy; you’re just focused on lasting one more day in your quest across the unknown. Eventually, though, these questions will become paramount if you want to build a business that stands the test of time. Something more than just a vessel for the idea that drove you in the beginning. Something that reflects your mission and your values, that honors all the work you put in, and that treats the people who helped you get here well. Figuring out your answers to these questions is also what will make youfeel successful, no matter what your next move is: whether you stay and build and lead, whether you go, whether you move on and try to repeat your success in another area. If you’re not doing it for reasons that are authentically yours, if you’ve lost sight of what inspired you from those very first days, then the long, arduous entrepreneurial journey you just endured might very well fill you with regret. Like promise unfulfilled. Forget feeling successful. You can feel like a downright failure when you get to the right place for the wrong reasons, no matter how much money you have. That’s because the path to true entrepreneurial success is not strictly about profit; it’s also about finding and fulfilling a deeper purpose. That has been the destination all along. Knowing that, and recognizing when you’ve reached it, is when the rewards truly begin to accrue. 19 It Can’t Be All About the Money Over the course of little more than a week in March 2008, the fifth-largest investment bank in the United States, Bear Stearns, finally collapsed under the weight of its massive bets on mortgage-backed securities.