Andy Puddicombe, a former Buddhist monk from the southwest of England, had the opposite of the Drinkworks problem. Where Drinkworks had its product figured out but struggled with where to go with it, Andy’s mission—to demystify meditation and make it accessible to as many people as possible—never changed. From the moment he turned in his robes in 2004, after an unlikely and unexpected stint teaching meditation in Moscow, he knew exactly where he was going. He just didn’t know that it would take him eight years and multiple twists and turns to get there with the creation of the popular meditation app Headspace. The mission behind Headspace took its earliest shape during Andy’s Moscow years, while he waited for a spot to open up in a four-year meditation retreat at a monastery in Scotland. “I wanted to make a long-term commitment to better understanding my mind,” Andy said, but in the meantime he found himself in this whole different experience, learning what it meant to teach meditation. In the beginning, Andy’s approach was very by the book. “I was teaching in a very orthodox way,” he said. “But the more I got to know people who would come to these sessions we’d have at the center, we’d have more informal conversations about what was going on in their lives.” During these conversations, Andy would break from the traditional, accepted methodologies, of which he was originally very protective, in order to help people understand the teachings. He would tell his students how he thought about these lessons and how he tried to apply them to his own life. “There’s so much emphasis on protecting the teachings and not projecting your own stuff onto them,” Andy explained, “but I found more often than not that this resonated with people far more than the traditional methods.” It was this demonstrable gap in effectiveness between his casual layman’s explanations and the authentic traditions Andy represented as a monk that inspired him to hand back his robes after a decade of dedicated training—to give up the monk’s life and return home to the United Kingdom. “I was finding a way of talking about meditation that I had never experienced myself but that seemed to really resonate with people,” Andy said, “and that’s what got me thinking about this whole idea of demystifying meditation and trying to make it more accessible.” The first step on the journey once he was back in the United Kingdom was to figure out thehow and thewhy of this whole experience and then to find a place where he could teach clients one-on-one, much the way he did with those first students at the meditation center in Moscow. “Every available moment, I was up writing content and trying to work out what is this thing that I want to do,” he said. It wasn’t easy. Andy still had an affinity for, and a deep connection to, the tradition to which he’d given the first decade of his adult life. He wasn’t just going to disregard everything because he had left the order. But even the things he knew would work, like the Tibetans’ use of storytelling and metaphor, he would have to tweak. The question was, how? The answer, of course, was in the mission: whatever would demystify the teaching and make it more accessible. The goal, he said, “was to give people just enough to be inspired or to get excited to try meditation, because a lot of people had heard about and read about it, but it’s only really in the experience of it that you can get them to make that leap in terms of actually getting the benefit.” So he started to use a lot more storytelling in his practice. He took a lot of metaphors and analogies from the Tibetan tradition, but he changed them just enough to make them “more approachable and accessible.” All of this he fine-tuned in his first teaching space, a clinic room in a London integrative health center run by a doctor who had heard a lot of good things about “mindfulness”—the catchall Western term for Eastern meditation techniques—and was “very interested in how it could complement some of the other things at the clinic,” Andy said. Starting there, in a clinic in London’s financial district, was a very intentional choice on Andy’s part. If he was going to be successful in demystifying meditation, not only did the teachings have to feel accessible to students, but the place where they learned them had to feel accessible as well. “I deliberately chose that clinic because I didn’t want [the place] to sit in the spaces where people traditionally see meditation,” he said. “I didn’t want it to be in an alternative health clinic or something like that. I wanted it to feel mainstream.” Before too long, Andy was seeing six to ten people every day, all with very mainstream problems. “They were struggling with depression, anxiety, insomnia, stress, migraines—many of the things that we all suffer with now in a life of just sheer overload,” he said. He’d see each person for an hour a week for ten weeks, gradually developing in the process a ten-week-long modular course from which everyone can benefit. And by “everyone,” I meaneveryone, because “everything you hear in the Headspace app now is built on the content and the language that was developed during that time,” Andy explained. “It was a really important training ground in terms of understanding what worked and what didn’t, what language connected and what didn’t.” But before he gotto the Headspace app—which, by mid-2018, had more than 30 million users and a million paying subscribers—Andy first had to figure out how to move beyond the one-on-one clinic experience. Not to make more money, though he certainly could have used it, but to reach more people more quickly. “I wanted to get meditation out. I wanted to get more people meditating. I just didn’t know how to do it outside of the clinic,” he said. Andy did a few workshops here and there on weekends, but that was as far as he’d gotten when, in early 2009, he was introduced by a mutual acquaintance to his eventual Headspace co-founder, a young former advertising executive named Rich Pierson, who had burned out from the booze-soaked, hard-living ad agency world and was learning acupuncture to combat his mounting anxiety in the very same clinic where Andy was working. Rich needed more help with his anxiety if he was going to make the transition out of advertisinginto sobriety and more purposeful living. Andy needed help branding and building beyond the clinic if it was ever going to fulfill his larger mission. “I could see that it was working for people, even people who previously wouldn’t have looked at meditation and gained benefit from it,” Andy said. “But it was still one-to-one in the clinic. And I just didn’t know: Do I start trying to train other people to teach meditation? Do I try and take this into workplaces? I had no idea, no business experience. And I just thought that Rich could help take this idea outside of the clinic and beyond.” Rich agreed to help. Andy agreed to put Rich through his meditation course. It was an ideal fit. And in 2010, after several months kicking around ideas, they formed Headspace. Not as an app mind you, but as a live events company that put on meditation workshops all over the United Kingdom. It wasn’t a great business to start, as you might imagine. Unless you’re Oprah Winfrey or Dave Ramsey, live event workshops are a tough business and tough to scale. There is only one Andy Puddicombe, after all. And there were only so many workshops he could do in one day—not that they didn’t try to push the limits on that number. But what was more important was that they were on track. They were executing Andy’s mission. They were putting more and more people, in greater and greater concentrations, through the meditation lessons he’d developed over the previous years. And eventually, in 2012, it only made sense for them to turn his ten weeks of well-tested content into a 365-day meditation program that could live digitally online and be accessible to literally billions of people, all at once right there on their phones, at the press of a button. Knowing where they’d been and in what direction they wanted to go with meditation, Andy Puddicombe and Rich Pierson knew that an app was the only logical way they were going to get there. The essence of the deeper purpose that was driving them had foreclosed other, possibly shinier, options. That is how powerful having a larger mission can be for a founder and their business. A mission guided a former monk—a man whohad given away all his worldly possessions and forsworn money for most of his adult life—all the way up to the summit of modern entrepreneurial achievement, along the only traversable path that would protect him from the pull of easy paydays, insulate him from the invidiousness of skeptical investors, and not just allow him to keep his principles but make them an essential part of his climb. 20 Build a Culture, Not a Cult There has been a famous document floating around the internet since 2009 known in Silicon Valley as the “culture deck.” It’s made up of approximately 130 PowerPoint slides, compiled over a ten-year period by the serial entrepreneur Reed Hastings as he and his team went about building a little company called Netflix. The document began as an internal training tool. Hastings and his managers would take new hires through it as they were being onboarded, during the period just after Netflix went public and started to turn a profit, and its leaders were starting to focus more intently on “what we wanted to be, how we wanted to operate,” Hastings has said. Reaction to the deck in those first years was mixed. Some new employees loved it; others were scared to death of it for reasons that were wholly their own. What was clear to Hastings, though, was that the deck could be more than a training document; it could be a recruiting and vetting tool as well. “We realized we shouldgive it to every candidate,” Hastings told the other famous Reid in Silicon Valley (Hoffman) on his podcast, Masters of Scale, in 2017. Two years earlier, in 2015, Hastings said, “We wanted to make sureeveryone who applied really got it.” They did this by posting the presentation on SlideShare back in 2009, which is how it began to ricochet aroundthe internet like a Super Ball shot out of a T-shirt cannon, and the results were profound. By defining exactly who they were, what they believed, and how they would operate, and then putting it down on paper and out into the world, Netflix not only screened out suboptimal job candidates before they even applied, but they also got “many people becoming candidatesthat might not have otherwise thought about Netflix.” In a predatory hiring environment like Silicon Valley in the late 2000s and early 2010s, selecting for culture became a competitive advantage.