“It was like a marriage,” Eric said. That description was not inaccurate. These two people—who were great, almost lifelong friends, who knew each other incredibly well—were confronted by a difficult problem they’d never faced before, with both a lot invested and people counting on them. You’d think that with their shared history and the complementary skill sets that made them such great co-founders, Eric and Adam would have been able to get through this treacherous moment with minimal aggravation. But the irony is, everything that made them perfect partners in developing the Method brand also made solving problems and resolving disagreements within the operation of the business incredibly complicated. “We knew how to be friends,” Eric said, “but we didn’t know how to be colleagues and partners together.” This was partly a personality issue—Adam is an introvert, Eric is an extrovert—and partly a matter of differing professional styles that result from their personalities. “Eric and I approach problems from very different angles, and that is a huge asset, but it also can be a huge rub,” Adam said. “We would be in these deep moments of stress,” Eric explained, “and my instinct is to just engage and run at it. Adam needs a little bit more space to kind of think it through.” That’s a recipe for conflict, and it was a lot to manage for a couple twentysomethings from Grosse Pointe, Michigan, who basically stumbled into a rekindled friendship aboard a plane one year and ended up in business together the next. To get through it—to make their differences in approach an asset and not a liability—would require acceptance and understanding, and then dedicated effort to accommodate for their unique working styles. “It required a lot of open-mindedness. It required a lot of self-awareness. It required a lot of listening,” Adam said. “It was a very conscious effort to say, ‘We’ve got to work on this, or this is going to end badly.’” For Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian, the founders of the news aggregation website Reddit, what threatened to end badly for them was not their business partnership but their friendship—in theyears afterthey sold to Condé Nast in 2006 and then exited the company in 2009. By that point, Steve and Alexis had lived together for eight years, first as roommates at the University of Virginia, where they conceived of Reddit, and then in New York when Condé Nast acquired Reddit. They’d graduated college and Paul Graham’s Y Combinator together; they’d negotiated the sale of their business together (less than eighteen months after they founded it); and they’d endured three years under the yoke of a corporate overlord for the first time. Alexis and Steve had basically become adults together, and millionaires on top of it. “We’d been through a lot together, and we had never really discussed it,” Steve said. “So by the time we left Reddit, we were not on the best of terms.” On one level, Steve was talking about what had gone on inside the company during the previous five years. “We had never discussed our roles at Reddit, the boundaries. Who was responsible for what. We didn’t really have a way of resolving disputes.” But listening to him and Alexis recount those early days, and knowing that they were excited about selling to Condé Nast at the time (“This was 16 months of work that was going to mean more money for me than my mother and father had made their entire lives,” Alexis said), I could clearly see that at the bottom of their professional problems were actually personal ones. “We never really exercised the muscles that founders have to exercise [but] that best friends don’t,” Alexis explained. “It’s great to be able to start a company with one of your best friends, but the conversations you have to have as co-founders are very different from the conversations you have to have as friends, and we didn’t have enough of the hard ones often enough.” It turns out this was precisely the issue Andy Dunn and Brian Spaly were encountering inside the online menswear business Bonobos at pretty much the same time as Alexis and Steve were silently growing apart. “Once you get into a business partnership with a friend, the friendship gets totally sublimated into the business partnership,” Andy said. “So a lot of the stuff that you used to talk about, you don’t have time for, because you’ve got to work on this little, growing baby company.” Then what happens, when things getdifficult at the office, is that founder-friends don’t get the support or the patience they need from each other because the friendship muscle has atrophied. It’s the worst kind of negative feedback loop. Andy and Brian’s friendship made conversations about conflicting business roles and differences of professional opinion very uncomfortable, and so the issues festered. Those unresolved issues increased the amount of attention each founder had to pay to the business—the energy for which they inevitably took from their friendship, sending their relationship into a downward spiral. When Brian left Bonobos in 2008, there was no personal or professional relationship left to speak of. (Later, the two co-founders would reconcile, and today they are close friends again.) When Alexis and Steve left Reddit in 2009 and their professional relationship ended, all that remained was a friendship in pretty bad shape. “When our contracts expired, we just kind of said, ‘Hey, you know, great, see you later,’ and left it that way,” Steve said. “I didn’t feel animosity,” Alexis clarified. “It was just neglect.” Neglect is among the worst things that can happen to a partnership or a friendship. Everything around it tends to rot and die, including the essential things that partners and friends build together. That’s certainly what almost happened to Reddit in 2015 when the site went through a series of crises. The CEO quit with a midlife crisis. His replacement, Ellen Pao, took over and then very publicly resigned after enduring a torrent of abuse from scores of toxic users (trolls) who had gotten out of hand. Fortunately, just as the site was going through the worst of it, Steve and Alexis started to repair their relationship. “I don’t remember exactly how it started, but I know from my point of view I just had this thought, like, ‘Hey, where is my best friend?’” Steve said. “And we just started kind of talking through things.” Talking through them in ways they never had in the first few years of Reddit’s existence. Eventually, Steve and Alexis even went to see Steve’s therapist together, in an effort to resolve what five years of neglect and then five years of distance had done to their friendship. This brought them into closer and closer contact right as the Reddit they had builtstarted to go haywire and, as Steve put it, became unrecognizable to them. It was perfect timing. Repairing their friendship reanimated their partnership. It reminded them how much they cared about Reddit, and it helped them convince each other to come back full-time and save it from the trolls. In 2014, the year before their return—with Steve installed as CEO—Reddit was valued at $500 million, and things were trending downward. In 2019, under their leadership, Reddit was able to raise $300 million at a $3 billionvaluation. Alexis and Steve would never take the credit for that turnaround, but it would also be a mistake to ignore the fact that by finally managing the tensions that had developed in their personal and professional relationships, they put themselves in a position to rescue what they’d built and save the self-proclaimed “front page of the internet.” When Adam Lowry said it would end badly if he and Eric Ryan didn’t work on their relationship— on their work marriage— it wasn’t immediately obvious whether he was talking about the partnership or the business itself. I’ve spoken to enough co-founders who’ve gone through periods of difficulty, however, to know that both are at risk for collapse, sometimes in quick succession, if the work doesn’t get done and hard decisions don’t get made. Nowhere is this clearer than with co-founders who areactually married. The work they have to do is harder and more urgent because there is no avoiding whatever issues they might have. Think about it: Adam and Eric had separate homes to go to at the end of the day. So did Andy Dunn and Brian Spaly, Katrina Lake and Erin Flynn, and eventually Alexis Ohanian and Steve Huffman. But married couples? They bring work issues home and marital issues to work. There’s no escape! That’s what makes the married founders of the San Francisco–based personal care company EO Products, Susan Griffin-Black and Brad Black, so exceptional. Their marriage ended in the midst of their professional success, and yet they somehow found a way to navigate the traditional pitfalls of divorce—not just to protect their business but also to protect their partnership and the human relationship that sat at the foundation of both of them. Now, it bears stating that neither Susan nor Brad had to endure the trauma of a personal transgression in the dissolution of their marriage. This certainly made it easier to find a way forward than if they’d also had to wrestle with overcoming a violation of deep trust. Betrayal is not one of those things that sits quietly and waits for you to get home from the office. It follows you everywhere, which is why thetypical story of a co-founder breakup—whether the founders are friends or spouses—is much messier and usually ends more sadly than the story of Susan and Brad, whose personal relationship simply unraveled over time. The financial pressure of starting and running a business together, on top of the demands that come with raising kids and just being married, took a lot out of them. “We lost our way in our personal relationship through it all,” Susan said, “but we really cared about each other.” And that was key to what happened next. Like Alexis Ohanian and Steve Huffman, the underlying respect and compassion Susan and Brad felt for each other got them into therapy. Counseling wasn’t going to save their marriage, and they both knew that. But it was very helpful in the long term because it taught them how to work through their differences—a skill they would need as co-foundersand co-parents if they wanted to keep their business and their kids on track, both of whom were thriving at the time despite Susan and Brad’s personal struggles. “It was difficult. It was painful. We could have sold. We could have bought each other out. We had options,” Susan said. But as a product of divorce herself, she was very aware of the importance of protecting children from the actions of parents when things aren’t going well, so she and Brad weren’t going to move a thousand miles away from each other (they still travel together as a family on Christmas) and they weren’t going to sell the business, if that wasn’t what was best for everyone.