It sounds amazing, right? But you can imagine, at this point, the wide differences in responses and reactions Andy received when talking about it to the Palo Alto office versus the New York office. The West Coast folks were ready. They felt strongly that the company should invest deeply in building this robust personalization functionality. The retail side, though, was skeptical, and that is being charitable. “The viewpoint in New York was, ‘Can I just get the product page updated to include reviews?’” Andy recounted. It was clear to Andy then that this hybrid thing was no longer working and something had to change. “The organizational harmony at the company was being destroyed by this cross-coastal conflict,” he said. “The culture was deteriorating, and it was becoming harder by the day.” I have great empathy and admiration for Andy Dunn. “I’m just the sum of cumulative terrible mistakes,” he once told me, describing how he views himself as a leader. But what is remarkable about him as well is that he had the emotional maturity to reflect on his struggles. So much so that he sought help—in the form of therapy—to help him figure out who he was and what he really wanted to do. In January of that year, he gathered the Bonobos board of directors and informed them that he’d decided to shutter the Palo Alto office barely a year after opening it. The closure was the first step toward resolving what Andy called a “broader error” he was making in trying to turn the company into a multibrand technology platform: getting away from who Bonobos was and what it did. There is a majordifference, he believed, between experimenting around the core of a business and jumping into new core businesses. The fit-to-ship Guideshops they began opening in 2012, the retail partnership they entered into with Nordstrom, and the other categories of menswear like dress shirts and suits they developed—all of those built around the Bonobos brand and, unsurprisingly, did quite well from the start. The high-cost Palo Alto office filled with West Coast tech people who had different ideas for what Bonobos should be, and the derivative golf (Maide) and women’s clothing (AYR) brands they launched—those were experiments that were “outside the scope of the Bonobos brand.” Maide hung on to become Bonobos Golf in 2017, but AYR was successfully spun out, as were the technology functions of the Palo Alto office, into a personalization SaaS (software as a service) company with their former chief technology officer, Michael Hart, as CEO. By 2014, Bonobos was already “massively turning the corner,” to use Andy’s phrase. The key mover that did it for them was twofold: they finally owned what the brand was, and then they took it multichannel beyond e-commerce into physical brick-and-mortar with their Guideshops and Nordstrom partnership. “That was another really fun board meeting,” Andy said of yet another debate over the identity of the business. In this one, the question was: “Is this an e-commerce company, or is this a menswear experience company?” Andy made the case that they weren’t an e-commerce business at all. Just as you might say Google isn’t a search company, it’s an ad sales company that uses search, Andy said Bonobos was a retail customer service business that utilized an e-commerce platform. And if they could “invent a way to deliver the same level of fit and service” as a traditional brick-and-mortar retailer, then that would only get them closer to their soul as a business. Without abandoning technology, which was never his intention, Andy had leaned into their retail menswear roots and managed to solve the challenge that had vexed him as a leader since he first took the reins in 2009. He had, at last, put Bonobos in a position to deliver on his and Brian Spaly’s original pitch to investors—it’s Ralph Lauren meets Zappos—and to let everyone know—inside and outside the company, investor or customer, analyst or employer—who they are and what they do. Once everyone was on the same page, the work really began to pay off, and in early 2017 Bonobos caught the eye of Walmart, which purchased the business that summer for more than $300 million. Smartly, Walmart’s leadership has allowed Bonobos to continue to do what it does, because they know who they are and what business Walmart is in, and they fully understand the same thing about Bonobos. Thankfully, Andy Dunn understands that, too, and he has finally been able to experience the power of becoming more of the things that are authentically him. 24 When to Sell and When to Stay In February 2008, the popular Harvard Business School professor Noam Wasserman published an article in the Harvard Business Reviewthat would become the basis for a best-selling book of the same name a few years later. It was called “The Founder’s Dilemma.” The thesis, based on reams of research Wasserman had conducted on thousands of entrepreneurs, was that at some critical point in the growth of their companies, all founders will find themselves with a choice between two competing interests—money and control—and they will often choose poorly. They will act either against their own self-interest or, in some instances, against the best interests of their companies, and sometimes both. The backdrop for Wasserman’s argument was the landscape of fundraising and the management trade-offs many entrepreneurs are unprepared to make in exchange for the capital they need in order to grow. Specifically, they resist the level of control that investors demand. “Founders don’t let goeasily,” Wasserman wrote. In fact, 80 percent of the entrepreneurs he analyzed were forced out of their founding leadership positions before they were ready to leave, and “most [were] shocked” when it happened. This is a product of the entrepreneurial personality, Wasserman argued. Entrepreneurs tend to be single-minded in their focus. Theyare extra passionate. They are sometimes confident beyond their abilities, to the point of naïveté. These are the attributes of a great startup founder, though less so of a CEO charged with scaling a business. And still, when confronted with this analysis by professional investors or even their own board of directors, “founders are usually convinced that only they can lead their start-ups to success,” Wasserman wrote. “ ‘Since I’ve gotten us to the stage where the product is ready, that should tell them that I can lead this company’ is a common refrain.” Now, entrepreneurs don’thave to raise professional money if they don’t want to. They don’thave to accept it in the amounts or at the valuation that may be available to them. They don’thave to realize the potential idling within their ideas as quickly as others may want either. They can take it slow. They can defer compensation. They can wait to make a lot of money and let the company grow at a more natural pace. It wouldn’t be an unfamiliar placefrom which to operate for most entrepreneurs, since founders typically pay themselves about as much as they would make if they were employees, and much less on average than a CEO would make coming into the company. Fundamentally, it comes down to what a founder thinks is best for the company and best for themselves. “Entrepreneurs face a choice, at every step, between making money and managing their ventures,” Wasserman wrote. “This fundamental tension yields ‘rich’ versus ‘king’ trade-offs. The ‘rich’ options enable the company to become more valuable but [may] sideline the founder by taking away the CEO position and control over major decisions. The ‘king’ choices allow the founder to retain control of decision making by staying CEO and maintaining control over the board—but often only by building a less valuable company.” Neither choice is, by definition, better than the other. It all depends on what a founder’s goals were when they started their company, and where those goals have evolved in light of their success. Except I don’t think money and control are your only choices when you are wrangling with a growing and successful business. I don’t believe they are the only two major forces that motivate an entrepreneur’s decision making either. I think there is a third. A consideration that tends to play a lesser role during the fundraising part of growth, but is especially active once a founder has grown their business beyond what they ever imagined possible and the opportunity to sell presents itself. I’m talking about happiness. Contentment. Making a decision that feelsright. In 2000, Gary Erickson and his partner at the time, Lisa Thomas, had to make a decision about whether or not they were going to sell Clif Bar to a big food company. A number of them were sniffing around trying to get into the energy bar game after Nestlé bought PowerBar for $375 million and Kraft snapped up Balance Bar for $268 million earlier that year. Gary wasn’t necessarily looking to sell, but watching their two biggest competitors be acquired within months of each other, for more than a quarter of a billion dollars each, had a big impact on Lisa. “I can remember the exact moment that I got a call from her and she said, ‘I want to sell the company,’” Gary recounted. “And I said all right, I guess this is what you do.” It was inarguable that there was a ton of money to be made here. Clif Bar had been in business for eight years by then; they had a growing staff and annual sales north of $40 million. They were the biggest privately held energy bar company left on the market. One of these multinational conglomerates was going to pay nine figures for them without a doubt. So they hired an investment banker, who went out onto the market and put the company up for sale, and then they hit the road. “We started traveling all over the country, visiting these large companies that wanted us to be part of their portfolio,” Gary said, “and we got an amazing deal from one of them.” The Quaker Oats Company, which already had Chewy granola bars in its portfolio and was itself barely more than a year away from selling to PepsiCo, offered Gary and Lisa $120 million. That would mean $60 million for each of them. They could walk away, set for life. They said yes. The signing of the papers was set for April 17, 2000. Gary and Lisa informed all their employees. Their investment banker, the peoplefrom Quaker Oats, and the lawyers were all gathered on the thirtieth floor of the Bank of America building in San Francisco. Lisa was on the phone with some of them nailing down the last few details in the contract. “The deal was essentially done,” Gary said. And then, less than an hour before he and Lisa were scheduled to jump in the car and drive from their headquarters in Emeryville, across the Bay Bridge, and into the city, Gary decided to take a walk around the block.