She was also someone you could count on to do whatever it took to get you to that fresh-faced place. “A facial is generally an hour, but I might be in there for two hours with somebody if they really needed it,” Marcia said. “I think it’s really important to be thorough and do the best job you can. And I think you get results when you put time in.” For Marcia, those results took the shape of a sixteen-month waiting list and a client roster that included Madonna, Nicole Kidman, Uma Thurman, Demi Moore, Annie Leibovitz, and half the models in Manhattan. When the online eyewear retailer Warby Parker launched in 2010, they were not so excited abouttheir wait list, because it was the result of being utterly unprepared for the onslaught of orders they received, thanks to the attention they got from two magazine features—one in GQ, one in Vogue —that ran just prior to their site going live. They ended up having to put 20,000 potential customers onto a wait list that took them upwards of nine months to clear. It could have been a disaster for the young company. You don’t get too many second chances in entrepreneurship, especially if you’re an online business. But even more than that, co-founder Neil Blumenthal said, they wanted to “create a business that had a positive impact on the world, and part of that is treating customers fairly.” So the founders reached out to every single person on the wait list who was disappointed or was having a bad experience. “These were early adopters that were excited to place an order from us, and we didn’t have anything to sell them,” Neil’s partner, Dave Gilboa, explained. “We gave people discounts, we would give them free glasses, and we learned a lot of important lessons in terms of being empathetic to customers.” Kind founders don’t just make everycustomer feel valued; they make everyemployee feel valued as well. They do things that make their employees feel like part of a family. They make it a point to give their employees something to call their own, in recognition of this larger journey they are on together as a business, as a unit. That could mean giving them a piece of the company itself, offering opportunities that help them grow as people, or just doing something as simple as recognizing their basic human dignity by trusting them with the freedom to use their time the way they see fit. These are not my ideas. They are the kinds of decisions you hear about again and again from people describing why they love theirjobs. They are choices made by entrepreneurs whose businesses, unsurprisingly, continue to thrive, in some cases several decades after their founding. People like Eileen Fisher, of the eponymously named fashion brand, and Kim Jordan, of New Belgium Brewing Company, who both decided in the midst of their early success in the 1990s to give an ownership stake to their employees. For Eileen, her decision was born as much from the belief that Eileen Fisher— the business— should be a shared, communal experience as it was an expression of gratitude to all those people who helped lead the company through its early explosive growth while Eileen was going through a difficult divorce. “I struggled a lot with being in two different places at once,” she said. “Wanting to be at work or worrying about work when I was at home, and at the same time worrying about my kids when I was at work.” It’s a seemingly timeless struggle that is familiar to millions of working parents. “I think about all the women out there trying to start businesses and work in the business world, and just how hard it is to manage families,” Eileen said. “I did the best I could. I had to let go a lot. I really had to rely on the people in the company and our teams and try to sort of lead loosely.” A lighter leadership touch when it came to managing people wasn’t unnatural for Eileen. “I saw myself more as a designer and an artist rather than a businessperson,” she said. To this day, she is uncomfortable with the idea of being a CEO. “Chief creative officer” was the closest she could ever bring herself to come to any executive leadership title. And it was a fitting description because she never “liked telling people what to do. I liked being given a problem and let me do it my way.” By the late 1990s, both Eileen Fishers had survived the divorce and her private turmoil to become huge successes. They had a showroom on Madison Avenue. Eileen’s clothes were in Bloomingdale’s, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Nordstrom. At a certain point, the company was doing $100 million in top-line revenue. At that stage, with everything Eileen had endured stress-wise over the previous few years, she could very easily have sold the company or found a strategic partner and taken some money off the table for herself. I think that’swhat a lot of people would have done in her shoes. More to the point, selling Eileen Fisher was not a creative enough way—in the opinion of its chief creative officer (aka Eileen)—to bring the company into the next decade in a way that reflected where they’d come from and what she wanted the company to be. “It was never about the money,” she said of the evolution of the business. “It was personal. I wanted it to be how Iwanted it to be.” And for Eileen that meant sharing the wealth. “I wanted the people who are a part of the business to participate and feel like owners andbe owners. ” So she sold part of the company to her employees. Today, with roughly 60 stores around the world and 1,200 direct employees (including employee number one, who is still with the company more than thirty-five years later), Eileen Fisher is 40 percent employee owned. At New Belgium Brewing Company, Kim Jordan and her co-founder, then-husband Jeff Lebesch, were dedicated to the concept of giving equity to their employees even earlier in the growth of the business. For Kim, it was a way of acknowledging that building this beer company into what they believed it could become was going to take a lot of work. Beer is a live food product, Kim explained to me during our conversation in front of a live audience in her hometown of Denver, Colorado. “You can’t bottle half a batch and say, ‘Well, we’ll pick that up tomorrow.’ You have to finish,” she said. “If the machine breaks down six times, or twenty times, in between the beginning and the end, you stay and you finish it.” Like any business, they were going to have some of those days. Long, hard, sixteen-hour days. If New Belgium was going to be successful, Kim thought, they would have to get through those days together. That’s why it was important to her to recognize the dedication and the sacrifice it would demand from all the people whose job it was to fix those machines and finish those batches and do whatever it took to get product into bottles, out the door, and onto shelves. “I really felt this deep sense of wanting to acknowledge that wewere building this community,” Kim said. “And I wanted to see how we could test this model where people in America get to own something, where they build value and they build equity and they’re all in it together.” Kim and Jeff started by setting up a phantom stock plan and distributing shares to employees pro rata every six months. But this wasn’t just some perfunctory stock issuance that got stapled to the back of a paycheck twice a year. This was anevent. They made new employees stand up in front of their co-workers—and nowfellow owners —to talk about why they wanted to be an owner. “We’d ask them questions,” Kim said. And not just her or Jeff, but the entire staff would get in on the act. “How long are you going to be here? What kind of skills are you going to work on in the next six months?” Questions that would test whether these men and women about to join the ranks of ownership were in it for the long haul. The system Kim and Jeff set up worked so well that eventually, after Jeff left the company and Kim assumed complete control, she sold her entire stake in the company to her employees. All of it went right into the employee stock ownership plan (ESOP). Any ownership Kim retained was in her capacity as an ESOP account holder, just like all her co-workers, and her stake sat right alongside theirs within the ESOP trust. New Belgium Brewing Company, today worth north of $250 million, had become a fully employee-owned company. One where, beyond equity (and one would assume free beer), employees also got a free cruiser bike after a year of employment and an all-expenses trip to Belgium after five years, where they’d get to visit the bar in Bruges where the idea for New Belgium was originally sparked. Like I said, it’s the little thingsand the big things that keep people around. From a strategic perspective, what is so underappreciated about treating your employees well and creating a kind work environment is that people pay attention. Employees feel it, obviously, as do their families, which makes talent retention appreciably easier. People looking for better job opportunities or something they can make a career out of see it, too, which is great for recruiting. And customers notice, which is excellent for brand loyalty and word of mouth. “I’ve had thousands of people say to me, ‘I came to New Belgium for a tour, and you can just tell that these people are into it. They like this thing,’” Kim said. They like this thing. Her co-workers love building a beer brand together. They like coming in to work. “One of the things that I knew early on is that people want to be connected to something bigger,” Kim said. “We spend a lot of time at this thing called work, so it should feel good.” Time is one of those resources that kind companies recognize has value far beyond money. For Yvon Chouinard, founder of the outdoor clothing company Patagonia, time is something he values above most everything else. He protects it religiously for himself, spending five months out of the office every year at his home in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, fly-fishing and not answering his phone. “People know if the warehouse burns down, don’t call me,” he said. “What can I do? [They] know what to do.” They know what to do because he has empowered them to do their jobs however works best for them.