Finally, in late 2015, I pitched the idea for How I Built Thisto NPR’s head of programming, Anya Grundmann—a true visionary in the world of podcasting and the architect of NPR’s podcast revolution. I worked on the show at night and on weekends with the help of a DJ-producer named Ramtin Arablouei. (Ramtin now co-hosts another NPR program, Throughline. ) My editor, Neva Grant, helped us craft my raw interviews into episodes. Jeff Rogers, our senior producer, gave us crucial feedback and support, along with my longtime collaborator Sanaz Meshkinpour, and producers Casey Herman and Rund Abdelfatah (the other co-host of NPR’s Throughline ). There was healthy (and justified) skepticism within NPR over whether the show would work and whether to give it a shot. But after almost a year of pursuing the idea in earnest, we were able to get the show off the ground. Today, four years since its debut in 2016, How I Built Thishas an incredibly talented team and millions of weekly listeners. Though you hear my voice and my interviews, the amazing team (past and present) behind the podcast and our live events includes Jed Anderson, Sequoia Carrillo, Elaine Coates, James Delahoussaye, Rachel Faulkner, Jessica Goldstein, J. C. Howard, John Isabella, Candice Lim, Diba Mohtasham, Allie Prescott, Daniel Shukhin, and Jinae West. Books don’t happen without lots of help. I’m so thankful for my dear friend and mentor Sara Sarasohn; her wife, Ellen Evangeliste; and their daugther, Ruth; along with Yangchen Dolma, who have been there for us on so many occasions over the past two years. Thanks also to my mom and dad. They came to this country in the early 1970s with a dream to build a better life. They raised four kids and gave us all the tools of independence and the support of anurturing childhood. Finally, my deepest thanks to my wife, Hannah, and my boys, Henry and Bram, for their love and understanding throughout this process. As I’ve written in this book, I’m a big believer in luck. And the luckiest day of my life was the day I met Hannah.