INTRODUCTION On an otherwise normal summer Monday in 2018, my wife, Hannah, returned home from her daily run with tears streaming down her cheeks. As she came into the kitchen of our Berkeley, California, home where I was making breakfast for our boys, she pulled the earbuds from her ears and said through deep breaths, “Why didn’t . . . you prepare me . . . for this episode?” That morning, the team at How I Built This —the business podcast I created and have hosted since September 2016—released our most recent episode, about Stacy Brown and her company, Chicken Salad Chick. I had forgotten this was the episode airing that day because the lag time between an interview and its release is usually many months. What I hadnot forgotten was how much of an emotional roller coaster my interview with Stacy Brown was. And it was clear from Hannah’s reaction that it had resulted in a very powerful episode. Here’s the basic outline of the story: Stacy starts making chicken salad out of her home in Auburn, Alabama, as a way to make ends meet after her husband walked out on her and their three children, all under the age of six. Her goal is to earn $500 a month to pay the bills. She finds small-time success right away selling her chicken salad door-to-door for several months, until someone calls the healthdepartment on her. (Apparently making food out of an unlicensed kitchen and selling it in off-the-shelf storage containers, basically out of the back of your car, is, technically speaking, not legal.) In response, the health department shuts her down. As this is happening, she enlists the help of a business-savvy family friend named Kevin Brown, who convinces her not to give up, but to double down and open a restaurant instead, in an 800-square-foot shack. The rent is $800 a month. So with his help, she does just that, and it’s successful, too. On their first day in business, they sell out of their chicken salad by 2 p.m. The intensity of the business and their partnership brings Stacy and Kevin closer together. Eventually, they fall in love and get married. Now as partners in lifeand in business, they steadily grow Chicken Salad Chick and use the cash flow to open two additional locations in Auburn, since no bank will even give them the time of day, let alone a small-business loan. After four or five years of bootstrapping their way to sustainability, they realize it’s time to find someone who can help them pivot to a franchise model where they’ll have a shot at turning a real profit and taking some cash out of the business. Unfortunately, they end up partnering with a less-than-honorable couple to whom they foolishly, in retrospect, sell 51 percent of the company, and who threaten to fire Stacy and Kevin from their own business just a few months later when the two couples’ visions for the future of Chicken Salad Chick diverge. Unwilling to let go of all they’ve built, Stacy and Kevin negotiate a buyout—except the partners want a 3× return on their initial investment, which amounts to $1.3 million(!), and they want it in thirty days(!!), or they are going to take over the company, and Stacy and Kevin will get nothing(!!!). Needless to say, Stacy and Kevin don’t have $1.3 million, so they travel all over Alabama pitching to anyone who will listen to them, trying desperately to raise the money. They get nowhere until the very last day—day 30 of thirty—when a man named Earlon McWhorter, who made his money building Lowe’s Home Improvement stores, calls them up after attending their pitch meeting at the Auburn Chamber of Commerce and tells them that he believes in them, that he loves their chicken salad, and that he will write them a check for every penny they need. Earlon’s investment doesn’t just give Stacy and Kevin their company back; it propels them into a franchising model that catches fire immediately. They start opening stores all over the South. Everything is going amazingly well. And then, in the middle of their expansion, Kevin is diagnosed with stage 4 colon cancer that has metastasized to his liver. He immediately begins an aggressive chemotherapy treatment regimen and, astoundingly, never misses a single day of work. It’s the beginning of another fight. This one, tragically, they will not win. But that does not stop them. Not only do they continue growing Chicken Salad Chick, but they also start the Chicken Salad Chick Foundation to support colon cancer research. As part of their fundraising efforts, Kevin has the idea to put on a huge benefit concert at Auburn University’s Jordan-Hare Stadium and to have Kenny Chesney (the biggest star in country music at the time) headline it. It’s a crazy idea, but then so was a restaurant dedicated exclusively to chicken salad. He helped make that happen, so why not this? Why not, indeed. They get Kenny Chesney. They sell 50,000 tickets. And on that night in April, they fill Jordan-Hare Stadium. Except Kevin will not be among the crowd, not in his physical form, at least. He passes away six months before, on November 21, 2015, surrounded by family. For Stacy, it’s an unfathomably painful loss. One that comes after nearly a full decade of very high highs and incredibly low lows, in both her personal life and her professional life. And yet, Stacy, like her husband, continues fighting. She perseveres. Not just for herself and her children, but for the memory of what Kevin meant to her and to their business. Later that year, all of their effort is rewarded: Chicken Salad Chick is listed in the Inc. 5000 as one of the fastest-growing restaurant brands in America. * Today, it is a $100 million business. This tumultuous, inspiring story is, in many ways, a quintessential entrepreneurial story. It’s also a classic hero’s journey. If you’ve ever read any Greek mythology or the Bible or watched Star Wars, you have experience with the “hero’s journey,” the concept—identified by the author and philosopher Joseph Campbell—that most great epic stories follow a similar narrative arc: a hero has a crazy idea; people doubt her; she leaves the village to pursue her vision, faces untold obstacles, falls into an abyss, barely escapes death, but manages to come out the other side with whatever she was looking for and continues on her journey to an eventual triumphant return. This is obviously a gross oversimplification of the structure of the hero’s journey, but those are the basic ingredients of a great classic story. They’re also the key elements of many great business stories—Stacy Brown’s included. It was a discovery I made entirely by accident while taking a business school class during the year I spent at Harvard as a Nieman journalism fellow in 2008. It was in that class that I was first exposed to the case study method and to the idea that you could learn about business through stories. Time and again I found classic heroic journeys embedded in these case studies. There were calls to adventure, trials and errors, all-is-lost moments, the ultimate boon—all told through the prism of business. What was even more surprising, to me at least, was that I was at all interested. In high school and college, I used to think that “business” was a dirty word. To me, it was the realm of hucksters and pitchmen selling cheap consumer products on late-night infomercials. Even though my generation produced people like Elon Musk and Larry Page, most of my cohort subscribed to an anticorporate, anticommercial ethos, perhaps best illustrated in a famous 1992 cover of Rolling Stonefeaturing Kurt Cobain wearing a shirt that read CORPORATE MAGAZINES STILL SUCK . Why would I care about the story of some business? It’s not like business was ever going to be my thing. Especially because I watched the ups and downs of my parents’ pearl-importing business and how much time and energy it sucked out of them. I have vivid memories of my parents grinding away at the kitchen table late into the evening, combing through customer lists, making cold calls that moreoften than not ended with the proverbial door being slammed in their faces—all in the service of providing a stable life for me, my younger brother, and my two older sisters. I didn’t want that life for myself. Watching my parents endure what entrepreneurship demanded of them, I could not think of any career less suited to my temperament and my interests than talking about businesses all day, let alone starting one. That’s why I went into journalism, then into radio, and eventually into hosting at NPR. And yet, here I am. I have somehow managed to create or co-create five podcasts that, together, generate millions of dollars in revenue and are heard by 19 million people a month. It’s a lot of work, more than I ever imagined, and to make sure it all gets done, I started a production company. Anactual company! Who would have guessed it? In truth, I’m still not sure how it all came (or stays) together, but we’re a small, nimble, tight-knit outfit, and I freely admit that I love it. What I love most is the journey of coming up with a big idea and turning it into something tangible—though it would take me until my late thirties to start to feel even a tinge of confidence about some of my ideas or my ability to execute them. For most of my career before then, I struggled with the kinds of worries I thought charismatic entrepreneurs never confronted: anxiety, fear, imposter syndrome, even depression. But over the course of my time doing deep-dive interviews with hundreds of business founders and CEOs for my shows, I’ve come to understand that, for the most part, they are just like you and me. Which is to say, they’re human. They all have sleepless nights and midnight terrors. Most of them, at some point, feel like imposters. They are not natural superheroes; they are all Clark Kents. The only difference between them and you, at this moment, is that when opportunity presented itself, they went into the phone booth and put on the cape. They took the leap. That’s basically it. How I Built Thiswas not my first leap, but it was my biggest, and the one that took the longest to make. It was a slow burn that began with the epiphany inside that Harvard Business School classroom. As a former war reporter, I knew that the most compelling human stories are journeys, and I had a hunch, now that I could see the hero’sjourney inside most business stories, that there was a tribe out there that would relate to these journeys in a business context.