That was how the idea for How I Built Thisevolved. And like the birth of the show, most of the ideas you will read about in this book didn’t begin with a big explosion either . . . but rather with a little spark. A spark that got nurtured, sometimes very slowly, until one day the person who would eventually bring that idea to life woke up to realize the thing that used to get them out of bed in the morning was no longer the thing that fired them up. It was something else now. An idea, as it was for Lara Merriken, Gary Erickson, and Peter Rahal, who all wanted to make a better energy bar. A desire to strike out on their own to see if they could do it, as it was for Angie and Dan Bastian when they moved back to Minnesota from Florida and decided to buy a $10,000 kettle corn starter kit that would eventually become Angie’s BOOMCHICKAPOP. An opportunity that leverages one’s skill set and experience, as it was for Randy Hetrick of TRX, when the homemade workout system he’d cobbled together to stay in shape while deployed overseas as a Navy SEAL captured the attention of his fellow SEALs, and then his friends, and then other fitness fanatics, including one very famous Super Bowl–winning quarterback. Or sometimes, a lucky (and perfectly timed) pivot, as it was for Stewart Butterfield when the internal messaging system his team developed to help build a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG) actually turned out to be more promising than the game itself. The game was scrapped. The messaging system became Slack. In short, this book is for people who aren’t natural-born entrepreneurs or even entrepreneurs at all, but instead are dreamers whose lack of experience is inversely proportional to the force of their ambition and the momentum of their desire to bring something new into the world and to make the world a better place. People who are idealistic but may not have found an idea worth going out on a limb for just yet. People who appreciate success if it comes, and who can find ways to learn from failure when it happens (oh, yes, failure will happen). People who learn the hard way—throughexperience—though the wisdom in those lessons may not always be immediately self-evident to them. People who still have no idea how they ended up where they are, with a product or a service, with employees and customers, but who want to make a real go of it, because they don’t want to let anyone down, least of all themselves. This book is organized to help those people—people like you and me, like Stacy Brown—succeed. It is the product of in-depth interviews with hundreds of the most successful and inspiring entrepreneurs from across the business landscape—from the food industry to consumer packaged goods to the tech world, and more. It is a synthesis of the lessons I have learned from those founders, and it is structured to follow the path we took as we traced their entrepreneurial hero’s journeys from the call to found their businesses (part I), through the tests and trials of their growth phases (part II), and finally to their destination as the mature, global brands we know today (part III). My goal is to pull back the curtain on entrepreneurship, to shed light on the black box of entrepreneurial success, and to provide an architecture for how to think creatively about building something, whether that’s an idea, a movement, or, of course, a business. Each chapter explores a discrete moment that nearly every founder faces in the life of their business—from coming up with an idea to getting their story straight; from finding funding to finding a co-founder; from pivoting their product to building their culture; from surviving catastrophe to figuring out how to grow and scale a business that lasts and leaves them feeling good about who they are and what they have done for the world. That said, not everything in this book will apply to your specific situation. Maybe you are trying to build something small. Maybe you don’t want to scale. Maybe you’re an employee trying to build somethinginside your company. And that’s totally fine! This book is not an all-or-nothing proposition. I just hope you’re able to find something in these pages that leaves you with a sense of both possibility and relief, since almost every story in the book describes a real problem that needed to be solved and an entrepreneur who found a way to solve it. My hope in structuring the book in this way is to show anyone who has the courage to pursue an idea but is struggling with the fear of failure, that every mistake that could be made in business has been made, that solutions to your problems have already been found—many of them by the founders you will meet in the pages to come—and that to learn from other people’s mistakes instead of going through them yourself is, perhaps, the only shortcut that exists in all of entrepreneurship. Now that you know how I built this book, let’s dive into how these brilliant innovators, entrepreneurs, and idealists built some of the world’s greatest businesses, so that one day soon, you can build your own. Let’s start writingyour hero’s journey. Guy Raz Spring 2020 PART I THE CALL ENTREPRENEURSHIP ISN’T VERY NATURAL. It defies many of our most human instincts. Our desire for security. Our fear of crazy risks. Our tendency to go with the flow and not make too many waves. As much as we think of ourselves as unique individuals, we also like to fit in and to be chosen—by those who fit in and were chosen before us. And yet, there is always that one person we know who goes the other way. Who embraces a different set of instincts. The kind that have driven humans for millennia to leave home, to push boundaries, and to build. For most of history we have called that kind of person an explorer. But in the twenty-first century, with the frontiers that are still open for exploration no longer physical, but technological, social, intellectual, and economic, we have given that person a new name: entrepreneur. The entrepreneur is a person who strikes out on their own to reach these frontiers of progress, aware of both the risks and the rewards of going it alone. They are driven to discover what might be found out there. They feel the call to makesomething out of what they find—something new, better, faster, more efficient—and to make it accessible to the rest of us in a way that we can use. It could be a product or a service or an idea that spurs its own kind of exploration, starting the cycle anew. It doesn’t matter. What matters is that anyone can be an entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs aren’t chosen, they are made. Self- made. You could be an entrepreneur. Maybe you already are. Maybe you have already heard the call: Of an idea that gets you excited. Of a problem that needs a solution. Of a friend who needs help that you are uniquely suited to provide. Either way, what follows is a critical set of things to think about as you prepare to cross the Rubicon of entrepreneurship into truly uncharted territory. 1 Be Open to Ideas People start businesses for all kinds of reasons. They do it to satisfy a dream or to solve a problem or to fill a void in the market. Some people want to improve on something that seems obsolete, and others want to reinvent an entire industry. There are literally dozens of on-ramps to the entrepreneurial journey. But no matter which one you take, at some point you are going to need an idea. Something specific. Something concrete and unique and new. An idea that makes life better or more interesting and delivers on the reason you wanted to start a business in the first place. Sounds simple enough, right? After all, ideas are a dime a dozen. Or at least that’s what many of us are led to believe: That ideas are easy and abundant. That what matters isexecution. And all of that is true to some extent. It’s just not the whole truth, because coming up with agood idea is hard. Good ideas are hard to find and hard to get right. But once you find one, they are also very hard to turn away from. That’s what makes good ideas so intimidating. Not that you won’t ever find one, but that one day you will, and when you do, it’s very possible that your life will never be the same again. So where do you find one of these good ideas? Where do you look? Can you look? Or do you have to wait for the angels to sing in your ear and the light bulb to go on over your head? Some people are lucky, and this epiphany happens for them early. An idea hits them out of the blue and sends them on their way. For most of us, though, it isn’t so simple. We have to look for a good idea, or at least be open to receiving it. It’s one of the eternal entrepreneurial questions: Can you actually find a good idea, or does it have to find you? The answer is the same for both options: yes. Chef and restaurateur José Andrés told me that ideas happen “when you are actively moving and searching.” When I asked him how he came up with his first restaurant concept in the early 1990s—a small-plates restaurant called Jaleo that revolutionized Washington, DC, dining, and then launched a thousand competitors nationwide—his answer was simple: “I was looking.” Lisa Price, on the other hand, wasn’t actually looking for the idea that would become Carol’s Daughter, her beauty brand, which the makeup and personal care giant L’Oréal would eventually snap up for north of mid–eight figures in 2014. “I thought that I had found the career that I was going to do for the rest of my life,” Lisa told me. A graduate of the High School of Music & Art in New York City, she was in her late twenties and had just come through a decade-long gauntlet of unrewarding clerical jobs—first at American Express, then at the United Nations, then in health care—along with a brief and emotionally devastating attempt at a singing career in between. She was living with her soon-to-be husband in a one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn when, in the late 1980s, through a friend, she found herself in what she thought was her dream job: writer’s assistant on The Cosby Show. This was, of course, long before the tragic drama surrounding the show’s eponymous star that has changed how we think about everything Bill Cosby created.