But it wasn’t raw entrepreneurial ambition that spurred her expansion. It was the two greatest forms of organic growth: repeat customers and word of mouth. Or to put it another way, it was Lisa’s passion reflected back to her in the form of consumer demand. “People would call and say, ‘Hey, I bought a jar of cream from you at such and such street fair, and I’m running out. How can I get some more?’ And I would look at my schedule, and if I knew I was going to be home on a Saturday, I said, ‘Well, I’m working the rest of the week, but if you want, come by my apartment on Saturday. What time would you like to come by?’” And when those people came to her apartment, they almost never came alone. “My husband called it the ‘sister-girl network.’ Somebody always brought a friend with them. And if you brought a friend, you’d get a free gift, or I’d give them [a discount],” Lisa said, recounting the early growth of Carol’s Daughter. “It was all that grassroots kind of stuff.” This is where so many aspiring entrepreneurs get tripped up when thinking about startup ideas. They forget about igniting this kind of passion in their customers and instead use only their own passion as the North Star for their search. Passion is important—you will never hear me say otherwise—but the trouble with passion by itself is that it can lead you down rabbit holes that only you care about, or to problems that only you have. Watching a few episodes of the immensely popular business television competition show Shark Tankis all you need to do to see this phenomenon play out in real time. There was the funeral concierge service called Good Grief Celebrations; the custom bobblehead company called The Bobble Place; a better tanning and massage pillow called the Podillow; an energy drink for women called Cougar Limited; a ticketless coat-checking system called CoatChex; and, perhaps the idea most diametrically opposed to Lisa Price’s scented skin care products, the No Fly Cone, a flytrap that used dog poop as bait to catch annoying flies in an effective, nontoxic way. One of the judges, Daymond John (whom we will meet later, in chapter 3), immediately identified the central challenge of that particular idea. “So the dog has to defecate outside, and you put the trap over this, and that attracts the flies. But if you clean up the dog’s mess and put it away . . . you’re kind of creating the problem by leaving the poop outside, aren’t you?” The product’s inventor, a Colorado-based horse trainer named Bruce Gaither, who was tired of dealing with horseflies all day, gave an impassioned answer to the question, but the explanation wasn’t convincing enough for any of the Sharks. Passion for the idea may have gotten Bruce out of bed every morning, and it surely helped him persevere whenever he felt like he might quit, but it was never going to sell his product, nor would it make the Sharks any money, because customers don’t pay for passion. They pay for things they can use. The same month the episode of Shark Tankwith Bruce Gaither aired, Paul Graham, co-founder of the startup accelerator Y Combinator and a kind of entrepreneurial Confucius, wrote a long essay titled “How to Get Startup Ideas” for his blog. It opens with a discussion of problems and reads like Graham had just watched Bruce on Shark Tankand was talking directly to him. “The way to get startup ideas is not to try to think of startup ideas,” Graham wrote. “It’s to look for problems, preferably problems you have yourself . . . It sounds obvious to say you should only work on problems that exist. And yet by far the most common mistakestartups make is to solve problems no one has.” The reason this mistake happens so often, as far as I can tell, is that looking for problems— looking for ideas —tends to take time, sometimes a fair amount of luck, and always hard work. If you aren’t searching smartly, or at least open to the possibilities and perspectives around you, it becomes that much harder to find something that works. Bruce Gaither found a problem to solve—he got that part right—it just wasn’t a problem enough people had. It was, in many ways, a solution in search of a problem, or as Daymond John might have put it, a solution that required Bruce to create the problem he was trying to solve. Lisa Price, on the other hand, was open to her mother’s perspective, she heeded the advice in that Oprahepisode, and she managed in the process to solve problems that not only she had, but that millions of African American women and other people of color also had, though that was not her original intent. “I was not deliberately saying this is for African American women. I was deliberately saying this is for dry skin, and subsequently, when you have more melanin in your skin, that dry skin will show. You look dull. You look a little bit gray. You look, as people say, ashy. And you cannot get away from that. And that’s how I probably at that time ended up with that audience of people who were more brown, because they found something that took away that ash.” There is a name for a person who creates something purely out of passion: hobbyist. There is a name for a person who creates something out of passion that solves a problem only they have: tinkerer. There is a name for a person who creates something out of passion that also solves a problem they share with lots of other people: entrepreneur. At one point or another, Lisa Price was all three of these people. Prince turned her into a passionate hobbyist. Experimenting with ingredients to solve her dry skin problem made her an inveterate tinkerer. Once she combined her passion as a hobbyist with her problem-solving skills as a tinkerer, and then applied that to the needs of the women of Brooklyn and beyond, what she ended up with was a great idea. What she built was an amazing business. What she became was . . . an entrepreneur. But there was an additional layer of genius to Lisa’s lotions aswell. They didn’t just solve the problem of dry skin for women of color; they created a brand-new market that Lisa could dominate. “This was not something that you could walk into a drugstore and say, ‘Oh, look at that. This is fantastic,’” she remembered. “It wasn’t there. There was definitely a community that was not being served.” And now it would be. A community that continued to grow in size and purchasing power and would ultimately demand more and better options in other areas as well; including skin care brands like Bevel, designed formen of color by Walker & Company, * which was founded in 2013, just a year before L’Oréal’s acquisition of Carol’s Daughter. That’s twenty years of steady growth in a segment of the market that had been systematically ignored for generations. The French novelist Victor Hugo famously wrote in 1862, “One withstands the invasion of armies; one does not withstand the invasion of ideas.” Lisa Price, open to inspiration from all quarters, identified this surging idea whose time had come before anyone else. Then she embraced it and made the decision to harness its power and lead the charge into a new market, all from the front. 2 Is It Dangerous or Just Scary? Why is it that so many of us are so bad at differentiating between things that terrify us and things that present a real hazard? We’re scared of flying, but we have no problem zipping down the highway in our cars at eighty-five miles per hour, even though you’reeighty-sixtimes more likely to die in a car accident than a plane crash; the odds of whichare nearly 1 in 10,000, which itself is three times less likely than choking on food. We’re afraid of letting our children go in the ocean on summer beach days because of sharks, but we demand they take baths on a regular basis, even though bathtubs claim one American lifeevery day and sharks claim only one per year on average. “Bathtubs should be 365 times as frightening as sharks, but it’s the reverse. We don’t have ‘Bathtub Week’ on the Discovery Channel,” the brilliant writer-scholar James Fallows wrote in a 2014 article for The Atlanticon this very subject of the difference between danger and fear. The reason for this is fairly simple: we’re more relaxed around things we’re more acquainted with. How many car rides have you taken this year? How many flights? How many showers or baths have you taken in your life? How many sharks have you come across in open water? The number of shark encounters is so minuscule in comparison that their rarity turnsthem into mysteries, which then turn into uncertainty within ourselves. And most of us do not do well with uncertainty. We worry. We fill the gap in our knowledge with our worst-case-scenario thinking. We get scared. And then we refuse to step even one foot in the water. This is a position that many first-time entrepreneurs find themselves in as they contemplate leaving the relative safety of stable everyday employment to start a new business. They are forced to reckon with the gap in familiarity between a regular paycheck and a boss who tells them what to do on the one side, and being their own boss with no guarantees on the other. For some, that gap can look like a canyon—or, worse, an abyss. And crossing it seems like the scariest, most foolish thing anyone could consider. In 1984, the creator of Sam Adams beer, Jim Koch, was staring long and hard across the chasm. It was spring. It was the beginning of the baseball season in Boston, and it was about to be “morning in America.” Ronald Reagan was preparing for what would be a landslide reelection to the presidency, the economy had finally turned around after years in recession, the US Olympic team was about to run away from the competition at the Summer Games in Los Angeles, and Jim was in the middle of his sixth year as a management consultant for Boston Consulting Group (BCG), already earning $250,000 per year (that’s more than $600K in 2020 dollars) before his thirty-fifth birthday. By all accounts, Jim Koch had it made. His feet were planted securely on the terra firma of the business consulting world. “We flew first-class. You consulted with CEOs. Everyone treated you really well,” Jim recalled. These were interesting, heady times at BCG. The company had just become fully employee owned, complete with an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) that forged a real path to truly significant wealth for consultants like Jim.