At the same time, he had already worked alongside a quartet of future luminaries: a young Mitt Romney; a thirtysomething Benjamin Netanyahu; the soon-to-be-legendary business school professor and author Clayton Christensen, whose seminal work, The Innovator’s Dilemma, helped shape twenty-first-century entrepreneurship; and future hedge fund billionaire John Paulson, who would make his fortune virtually overnight betting against the subprime lending market with credit default swaps some twenty-five years later. Jim Koch was no slouch either. He’s triple Harvard (BA, JD, MBA), and to anyone who was paying attention—which included BCG’s founder, its current CEO, and the man who would be next in line—the sky was the limit for this kid from the east side of Cincinnati. “It was a great job for a while,” Jim said with trademark understatement. For a while? At Jim’s salary, with the stock options still ahead of him, he was closing in on “pay off your parents’ mortgage and start a foundation” territory. What more could one person possibly want from a job? Well, for Jim Koch, it wasn’t about more; it was about different. In the beginning at BCG, Jim was being paid to learn about business strategy, product categories, organizational issues, and business problems. But once he entered management, his job became . . . well . . . boring. He was selling BCG’s services rather than diving into problems and finding solutions. “The learning stopped,” he said. “And then I had this epiphany. I asked myself, ‘Do I want to do this the rest of my life?’ And the answer came back: ‘No.’ And the corollary to that was, ‘Well, if I don’t want to do it for the rest of my life, I probably don’t want to do it tomorrow.’” It was a pretty abrupt turn for someone who had three degrees from Harvard and every reason in the world to wrap himself in the security and the creature comforts of his job. Yet something had to change. “I knew I did not want to work in the corporate world anymore,” he said. So he started to think about quitting. Then, not unlike what happened with Lisa Price, a fortuitously timed article, this one in Inc. magazine, about a small but successful craft brewery in San Francisco called Anchor Brewery, triggered something in Jim, and it developed into an idea: a new craft beer. Like any good consultant, Jim did his research into the current state of the beer industry, and once he settled on that as the very thing he wanted to pursue, he went home to visit his father to tell him of his plan to start a brewery. His father’s response was unequivocal: “He looked at me and he said, ‘Jim, you have done some really stupid things in your life. This is the stupidest.’” And Jim’s father would know, because beer was the Koch family business. Jim Koch’s father was a fifth-generation brewmaster. Five generations of eldest Koch sons had been brewers. Jim would be the sixth—if his father wasn’t able to talk him out of it. And there would be ample reason for him to do that. When Jim’s dad got out of brewmaster school in 1948, there were a thousand breweries all over the United States. By 1984, that number had dwindled tofifty. In the intervening years, his father had to move the family from town to town as breweries closed, before finally leaving the brewing industry entirely. “My dad told me that it was a miserable way to make a living,” Jim said. “The last thing that he wanted for me to do was to go back into brewing.” Jim was married with two small children. He was making a good living. That much was undeniable. To leave now, with everything looking up? It was too risky. Too scary. Or was it? Now, here’s the thing about Jim Koch when it comes to fear and risk: this was not the first time he had taken a significant jump away from the safe, familiar path. In his midtwenties, while pursuing a joint JD and MBA, he dropped out of Harvard to become an Outward Bound instructor. “I just didn’t want to make decisions that would bind me for the rest of my life [while still] having more to do,” he explained. “And I also realized that there are things you can do in your twenties that if you don’t do them then, you will never be able to do them.” For the next three and a half years, Jim spent his life outdoors, rock climbing, kayaking, backpacking, doing adventurous things that probably scared his parents half to death. But in doing them he learned that “you don’t need that much to live on if you’re really enjoying what you’re doing.” He also learned that nothing is permanent and that you can always go back once a different path has run its course. It was an experience that changed Jim’s life. It shaped his entire perspective on the decision, some ten years later, to ignore his father’s advice, to leave his job at Boston Consulting Group, andto create Sam Adams and the brewery that would become Boston Beer Company. For anyone who possesses even a modicum of risk aversion, myself included, this seems from the outside like it must have been a terrifying decision. Think of the old proverb “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” Well, the bird in Jim’s hand wasn’t just any bird. It was a golden goose. It provided money and power and influence. He was going to let all that fly away? To brew beer? To have the same job that his father and grandfather had had? When precisely what they had always wanted for him was a better life? To Jim’s mind, though, that golden goose looked more like golden handcuffs. It wasn’t leaving BCG that carried all the risk; it was staying. “It is the difference in life between things that are scary and things that are dangerous. There are plenty of things that are scary but aren’t dangerous. And there are things that are dangerous but not scary. And those are the things that get you,” Jim said by way of explanation. I understood in theory what he was saying, but he offered a climbing analogy from his Outward Bound days to really drive it home. “One of the things we taught people to do was rappel off a cliff. It is a very scary thing to do, but you are also held by a belay rope, and that rope would hold a car. So walking off the cliff backwards is scary, but it’s not dangerous. Walking across a thirty-five-degree-angle snowfield on a beautiful late May afternoon with bright blue sky, on the other hand, is not scary at all, but it is very dangerous, because the snow is melting, eventually it is going to find a layer of ice, the water will lubricate that ice, and then you have an avalanche. That is dangerous but not scary.” Jim was describing to me the exact same kind of comparative scenario that James Fallows had for his readers a few years earlier. We’ve all gone on walks when the weather is beautiful. Of course it’s safe! But how many of us have rappelled off a cliff? And how many more than once? The whole thing justsounds dangerous. Like swimming in the ocean where, similar to rappelling, you can’t really see the bottom. Except Jim Koch didn’t need to see the bottom to knowwhat was there—or, more likely, notthere—and he wasn’t at all concerned about hitting it. “In my situation,” he said, it was “staying at BCG that was dangerous but not scary. The danger was continuing to do something that didn’t make me happy and getting to sixty-five years old and looking back and going, ‘Oh my God, I wasted my life.’” Failing is scary. Wasting your life is dangerous. The great irony, of course, is that the history of modern entrepreneurship is littered with the stories of founders whose success we roundly celebrate today but whose loved ones worried in the beginning about the same thing that Jim did—that they’d waste their lives—but only if theydid take that leap in pursuit of their ideas. When Steve Jobs and Bill Gates dropped out of college in 1972 and 1975, respectively, to go on to found Apple and Microsoft, you can be sure their parents weren’t high-fiving and sleeping soundly those first years, just as Mark Zuckerberg’s parents weren’t a generation later when he left school to start Facebook. Or Evan Williams’s parents, when he left the University of Nebraska after a year and a half to work in the nascent tech startup sector before eventually founding Blogger and Twitter and then Medium. Leaving a stable, well-paying career or dropping out of a prestigious university has simply never been something you did if you wanted to be successful in life, even if you did have a world-altering idea. Despite many success stories to the contrary and a laundry list of self-made billionaires who never donned a cap and gown, this conceit is as true today as it was in 1984. And not just for Jim Koch, but also for an eighteen-year-old freshman at the University of Texas named Michael Dell, who had just endured from his parents a harsher version of the talking-to that Jim was about to receive from his father later that spring. Just as Jim came from a long line of brewers, Michael came from a long line of physicians. “I was a premed major,” Michael told me, “and some of this was [a result of] the programming from my parents, because my father was a doctor, my older brother was a doctor, a lot of my cousins were doctors, and I always thought I’d be a doctor.” Except Michael had discovered computers several years earlier as a junior high school student, and they had quickly become his passion. He bought his first computer, an Apple II, when he was fifteen years old, and he took the whole thing apart to see how it worked. He was one ofthose kids. Then, as a premed freshman, he started upgrading off-the-shelf computers out of his dorm room. “It was just sort of a fun thing to do, a way to make some money,” he said. “I was buying new computers and souping them up and then reselling them. I would upgrade them with more memory, and that actually became the main business—putting hard drives in those machines.” Today, we take memory and computing power for granted. Companies give away two-gigabyte thumb drives as swag at conferences like they are breath mints. But in late 1983 and early 1984, when Michael Dell was a freshman, machines like the original IBM microcomputers didn’t even have hard disk drives.