“So what I would do is, I would make a hard disk drive system that you could put inside an IBM computer, and then instead of two 160K or 320K floppy disk drives, it would have a 10-megabyte hard drive, which at that time was something amazing.” It was so amazing that Michael quickly found customers at area universities and in lawyers’ and doctors’ offices, architecture firms, and other high-dollar, tech-savvy professions. (“Students weren’t really buying computers at the time, and most of the students that I knew weren’t really interested,” Michael said.) He was even bidding on state contracts, which is just fantastically precocious. Before too long he was doing $50,000 to $80,000 per month in sales. That’s nearly a million-dollar business. From a dorm room. In 1983. Sounds like a pretty great business, right? Well, there were two people who would have disagreed: their names were Mom and Dad. And Michael knew it, which is why he never told them what he was doing or how much money he was making. They only found out when he had to explain why his grades that first semester were so poor. “They became very upset with me and said, ‘You have to stop this and focus on your studies.’ They said, ‘You’ve gotta get your priorities straight. What are you doing with your life?’ All that stuff,” Michael recounted. To Michael’s credit, he gave it a shot. He tried to do what his parents asked of him. It lasted about ten days. “I actually realized that this was more than a hobby or a nice way to make some extra cash on the side while I was going to school,” Michael said. “It was actually something I was very passionate about. So during those ten days, I sort of mapped out the beginnings of how I was going to finish up my freshman year but then launch this as a real, official business. And I eventually made a deal with my parents that I would do that, and if it worked out I would continue, and if it didn’t I’d go back to school.” In January 1984, he registered his little dorm room Skunk Works as “PC’s Limited.” In May, just a month after Jim Koch decided to quit his job at BCG to start Sam Adams, Michael Dell finished his freshman year, officially incorporated as Dell Computer Corporation, moved his operation into office space in North Austin, and left school forever. The disconnect between Michael Dell and his parents, and the key issue that I suspect has thwarted many young, aspiring entrepreneurs, is misapprehending the difference between something being dangerous and something being scary. It is mistaking fear for folly, risk for recklessness. It is the presumption that if something has never been done before, that is because it can’t or it shouldn’t be done. If you have a good idea that excites you, that compels you to take a detour from the comfort of a normal existence along the beaten path, you will first need to navigate this minefield of misunderstanding, whether it lives within you or sits between you and those whose opinions you value and respect. Because while you can never fully know what you’re getting yourself into when it comes to building a business, you should at least know whether you can get yourself out of it if everything goes south. That is the difference between dangerous and scary. For Michael’s parents—coming from a family of well-educated people at a time when personal computing was mostly a curiosity that was often dismissed as a fad—leaving school to tinker with computers and resell them must have felt like their son was in danger ofthrowing his life away. What is more dangerous to a parent than a child taking their first steps out onto the high-wire act of adulthood and doing so without a net? But for Michael, there was nothing at all dangerous about this idea. He loved working on computers. He knew them well enough as a teenager that professional adults with even more to lose than he did trusted his insight and his work. He was solving their problems. Moreover, having found early success and having seen what was on the other side of this big leap, it was impossible to go back and see the world in the same way again, toever againsee it as his parents had. He knew the rules of this new world, and because of that, any last vestiges of danger melted away. And, hey, if it didn’t work out for whatever reason, he could always just go back to school and slot right back into the premed program. He was nineteen years old; he had his entire life ahead of him. The reality was, the scariest part of starting Dell Computer Corporation was the same thing that is scary about starting any business: it’s the unknown. What did a teenage Michael Dell know about running a business? About hiring? About leading people? About finding and leasing office space? About corporate taxes? What do any of us know about that stuff before we confront it? Nothing. That is truly terrifying to any first-time entrepreneur. But it is also eminently knowable—if you choose to learn it. The danger for Michael was in relenting to his parents’ demands that he become a doctor, in hating every waking second of it while he watched the personal computing revolution unfold in front of him, and then in resenting his family for the rest of his life because they pushed him down a path that he knew in his heart was wrong for him. If there is one thing I am certain of from my time interviewing entrepreneurs, it is that anyone who found their success after leaving the relative security of higher education or their previous profession would be utterly unsurprised by the choices that Jim and Michael made in 1984. When entrepreneurs of that type think back to the moment they took the leap—when, swinging on the monkey bars of life, they finally took one hand off the bar behind them and swung forward to reach for the next bar in front of them—they all talk aboutthat initial uncertainty and the scariness of the unknown. But then those concerns melt away as they reflect on the even greater dangers of regret and squandered opportunity, and, as Jim put it, waking up at sixty-five years old only to realize that they’d wasted their lives. Even though it comes from an old French word, “entrepreneurship” is a fairly new term in the vocabulary of business. Founders today self-identify as entrepreneurs in a way that the generations who came before them struggle to understand, mostly because they didn’t have the language back then to describe what they were doing as they built their businesses. Fundamentally, though, they were doing the same thing. They were taking the detour, taking the leap—away from the type of professional life they didn’t want, and toward something new and exciting and their own. As a group, they have made entrepreneurship both less scaryand less dangerous. By developing a lexicon for the process of starting a business, by giving it a name, many of the modern founders whom you will meet in this book have helped to demystify the prospect of taking the leap. By breaking new ground, the older generation of founders—of which Jim and Mike are a part—have made taking the leap seem almost normal. They are why you can trust the rope threaded through your harness by experts and counterweighted by mentors, and have faith that the anchors hammered into the cliff face by those who came before you will hold, as you take that first big step backward off the cliff and into the unknown. Because they know what it means to take your fate into your own hands and to feel that you’ve got a real grip on this idea that has its own grip on your soul. 3 Leave Your Safety Zone . . . but Do It Safely PayPal alumnus and LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman captured the romance of entrepreneurial daring perhaps better than anyone when he said, “Starting a company is like throwing yourself off the cliff and assembling an airplane on the way down.” There is something romantic about the struggle to do something new, isn’t there? About taking the leap. At one point or another, all of us who are enamored of the pursuit of big ideas have found ourselves enthralled by the origin story of a successful enterprise: the marathon coding sessions; the all-nighters that stretch across an entire week; the four friends stacked on top of one another inside a one-bedroom apartment, meeting every evening at the kitchen table in the “boardroom.” In commencement addresses and keynote speeches, famous founders talk wistfully about these memorable and crucial moments. Being down to their last dollar; maxing out their credit cards; eating nothing but ramen noodles and drinking nothing but Mountain Dew for months on end. Those were the good old days. There are some people who find those stories exhilarating; others, terrifying. For the longest time, I would have counted myself as one of the latter. And to an extent, I still do. I mean, what kind of maniac would just throw caution to the wind as Reid described? Who in their right mind would ever take such a huge risk? If building a company or creating something big and new is like jumping off a cliff andhoping to put enough pieces together before it, and you, die a horrible death, the question I always want to ask founders and creators is, Why do it? What are you thinking? Why would you ever jump? Okay, maybe I have more than one question. The reassuring thing I’ve discovered, though, is that for every blind leaper, there is another type of entrepreneur. One who doesn’t walk backward off the cliff like it was a gangplank. One who doesn’t just close their eyes, hold their nose, and hand their fate over to gravity. This entrepreneur’s eyes are wide open. They have already measured the jump. Like a trained gymnast, they’ve already picked a landing spot. More important, they know that if they aren’t able to stick the landing, if they can’t build the entire plane in time and the business goes up in flames, their whole life won’t get wiped out with it. They’re taking the leap of faith knowing they have carefully packed, checked, and triple-checked their parachute. At the risk of torturing this metaphor beyond recognition, what I’m saying is that most of the successful entrepreneurs I’ve met left the comfort of their previous lives as safely and smartly as possible. And they did this in one of two ways: either they stayed in their “real jobs” until their startups demanded more time than they could spare, or they went for it with a fallback plan in their hip pocket, which made the risks inherent in entrepreneurship manageable enough for them to be able to sleep at night.