Daymond John did both. In 1989, long before he was one of the most savvy sharks on Shark Tank, Daymond John was one of the most ambitious waiters at Red Lobster. Twenty years old, living with his mother in Hollis, Queens, Daymond spent his evenings serving Cheddar Bay Biscuits to the seafood lover in you, and his days working on an idea for a new hip-hop clothing brand. He called it FUBU—from “for us, by us”—in response to certain high-end clothing companies that didn’t like “rappers, inner-city kids, African Americans” wearing their clothes. “Istarted to get fed up hearing about all these types of brands,” Daymond told me. “I wanted to create a brand that loved and respected the people who love and respected hip-hop.” His first product was more or less an accident. It was a particular kind of tie-top wool ski cap (“not with the ball on top, but with a little tie like a shoestring”) that was relatively inexpensive and was becoming popular with a lot of rappers, but that was still impossible to find anywhere in the city where everyday people shopped for clothes. “I went all over uptown Manhattan,” Daymond remembered. “When I finally found one, if you added the gas and tolls, I paid $30 for this thing. I showed my mother, and she said, ‘You can’t afford to just pay that kind of money for something you can make for $2.’” The light bulb went on. There was opportunity here. Daymond’s mother sent him to a fabric store to buy $40 worth of fabric and then taught him how to sew the caps himself. Within three hours, he had eighty caps. Forget $2; he’d made a bunch of caps for 50 cents apiece. Now he just had to sell them. The next day was Good Friday. Everyone from the neighborhood would be headed over to the Jamaica Colosseum Mall to shop for Easter, so that’s where Daymond went. “I caught people when they walked in and out of that mall, standing on the corner,” he said. “I sold the hats for $20, but if you didn’t have $20, it would be $17. If you didn’t have $17, it would be $15. And if you didn’t have $15, they were $10. My last two hats, they were $3.” By the time the day was done, Daymond was holding $800 in cash, $760 of it pure profit. A 20× return on investment. Within a couple months, he’d used the money from some of these early sales to refine the quality of his hats and his FUBU logo, and then move into shirts. Daymond was onto something. He started by purchasing simple Champion T-shirts and sweatshirts from local clothing stores, then stitching his own FUBU labelover the Champion insignia. When he sold enough of those, he took the proceeds and sourced high-quality blank jerseys and sweatshirts from around the country. He hired embroidery shops and silk-screen printers to elevate the quality of the craftsmanship. “My plan at the time involved the big black guys in the neighborhood,” Daymond explained. “They had little options to be very stylish, so they had to go to Rochester Big and Tall and get a big white shirt or a black shirt, or they had to pay a lot of money to get their stuff custom-made. So we found a place that made 4X-, 5X-, 6X-sized shirts, and we made twenty of them.” Just imagine: that’s sixty massively large shirts with FUBU’s logo emblazoned across the front in an equally massive font. It would be hard to miss, right? That’s what Daymond thought, too. “We knew that if we gave them [for free] to these guys, who were bodyguards and bouncers standing out in front of the clubs, they would not just wear it once. We knew these guys would wear it forever. So for the first six months, that’s what we did. And before you know it, these guys were walking billboards.” But these were not your run-of-the-mill bouncers or bodyguards. They were not just ID checkers or crowd control managers. These guys were glued to the hips of rap artists who were redefining American pop culture. They were the gatekeepers of what were becoming the hottest clubs in New York—the Studio 54s of their generation. Which meant, when outfitted in gear provided directly from Daymond, each one was the living, breathing equivalent of a Times Square billboard for FUBU. One that managed to get the attention of Ralph McDaniels, the influential co-founder of the iconic New York public access TV show Video Music Box, which had been responsible for breaking nearly every single hip-hop artist on the East Coast as far back as 1983. Ralph put Daymond and his partners on the show in 1993 and told everyone who was watching that FUBU was the next big thing. “He really put us out there, and after that all the rappers—all of them—were ready to wear our stuff because Ralph gave us the thumbs-up,” Daymond said. This was not an exaggeration, and it was a very big deal. You have to remember, in 1992–1993 rap and hip-hop were exploding into the mainstream. These were the years when the world was introduced to the first albums from iconic hip-hop artists like Dr. Dre, Arrested Development, Common, House of Pain, UGK, Snoop Dogg, E-40, Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, and the Roots. Not to mention follow-upalbums from seminal artists like the Beastie Boys, Eric B. & Rakim, Public Enemy, Too Short, and Ice Cube. I don’t mean for this to turn into a VH1 Behind the Musicepisode about the history of rap, but it’s important to understand that FUBU began its ascendancy as the defining brand in hip-hop fashion during the same years that many of the artists who defined the golden age of hip-hop rose to prominence wearing the company’s clothes. Daymond was four-plus years into his FUBU journey at this point. He had strung together a number of wins for his fledgling business, some of them big enough that, if they were to happen in the modern entrepreneurial environment, they very well might inspire their beneficiaries to drop out of college or quit their jobs, move to Silicon Valley, and try to raise a bunch of money. Basically, to take that running jump off the cliff that Reid Hoffman talked about. But that was never on the spectrum of possibilities for Daymond. Even the rush of attention and sales that came from his appearance on Video Music Boxcouldn’t get him to quit his “real job”—only to reduce his hours. He eased himself into the entrepreneurial life. “It was forty hours at Red Lobster and six hours at FUBU. Then it was thirty hours at Red Lobster and twenty hours at FUBU, because money started to come in,” he told an audience of entrepreneurs at one of CNBC’s iConic conferences in 2017. A number of great business minds who found themselves in comparable positions early in their careers took similar approaches to balancing their old jobs with their new entrepreneurial ventures. When Phil Knight started Blue Ribbon Sports, the company that would become Nike, he spent five years as a certified public accountant, “putting in six days a week at Price Waterhouse” and all of his free time at Blue Ribbon. “Most days I didn’t mind,” he recounted in his memoir, Shoe Dog, because “I invested a healthy portion of my paycheck into Blue Ribbon’s account at the bank, padding my precious equity, boosting the company’s cash balance.” The shoe business is hard, but where money is concerned, there are few industries riskier than the airline business. As Virgin Atlantic’s founder Richard Branson famously quipped, “If you want to be a millionaire, start with a billion dollars and launch a new airline.” Thegraveyard of defunct airlines is a testament to the essential truth at the core of Branson’s joke. That makes the late Herb Kelleher’s achievement all the more impressive as co-founder of Southwest Airlines. For much of Southwest’s early existence, Herb, a practicing attorney, kept his private law practice open. For the first four and a half years, as he helped get the airline off the ground with funding and FAA approvals and aircraft leases, he also defended the company against a litany of lawsuits. In 1969, in fact, it got so bad that the company ran out of money, and the Southwest board of directors talked seriously about shutting down the airline. It was Herb’s willingness to “litigate for nothing and to pay all the court costs out of [his] own pocket” that kept the lights on. In keeping his day job for as long as he did, he gave Southwest the runway it needed to take flight as the newest (and only, at the time) no-frills, low-cost airline. Today, it carries more passengers than all but two airlines in the entire world. Herb didn’t give up his law practice until 1981, fourteen years after the founding of Southwest Airlines, and he only did it at the request of the board of directors. Daymond John didn’t hang on for quite so long. He quit Red Lobster completely in 1995, six years into the life of FUBU. But even then it was only after he’d secured a multimillion-dollar round of financing from the head of the textiles division inside the South Korean tech giant Samsung, as part of a deal Daymond and his partners were seeking in order to fulfill $300,000 in orders he’d booked a few months earlier at the MAGIC fashion trade show in Las Vegas. And it’s here that we get to the heart of Daymond’s decision to stay at Red Lobster for as long as he did, and why he concluded his talk at the iConic conference by exhorting the crowdnot to quit their day jobs. Despite its early successes, despite all the attention from media and tastemakers, despite the rising profile of the brand in the hip-hop community, FUBU was never too far from insolvency. It was always in need of cash. “Through 1989 and 1992, I closed the business three times because, with all the development costs, I ran out of money,” Daymond told me. “Like many businesses, my partners and I leveraged our credit cards above $50,000 with a very high interest rate, which is not the smartest thing to do.” That trade show in Vegas? Daymond and his partners snuck in every day wearing half the FUBU gear they were trying to sell to retailers, because they couldn’t afford floor passes, let alone the fee for an exhibitor’s booth. Oh, and that deal they struck with Samsung? It was the product of a classified ad that Daymond’s mother took out in the New York Times: “Million dollars in orders. Need financing.” The ad cost $2,000.