Daymond worked for a month at Red Lobster to pay for it. Daymond will tell you that his job at Red Lobster did for FUBU what Herb Kelleher’s legal practice did for Southwest: it gave his business the runway to take off, and once it did, he poured himself into it completely. But in the same breath, Daymond will also say that the Red Lobster job was the rip cord he could have pulled any time he felt like FUBU was going down. One could argue he should have pulled it more times than he did; he certainly would have been better off in the short run. “If [FUBU] would have failed [early on],” he told the iConic audience, “I wouldn’t have been owing everybody; I wouldn’t have had this huge deficit; my credit wouldn’t have been ruined for seven years.” He also would have had a job that kept him housed, fed, and clothed. A job he was good at, that he actually liked. “I was having a great time as a waiter,” he said of those early years. Knowing that he could always go back to something he was good at, where he had a lot of experience, didn’t make the leap into FUBU any less scary, but it did remove a lot of the danger. It gave him a cushion, a fallback plan. The same was true for Jim Koch. The knowledge that he could go back to Boston Consulting Group or some other management consulting firm whenever he wanted, made the insane decision (at the time) to start a craft brewery seem less crazy. For Sara Blakely, the billionaire founder of Spanx, selling fax machines was her fallback. For Mark Cuban, internet entrepreneur and Daymond John’s fellow shark, it was bartending. The founder of JetBlue Airways, David Neeleman, knew that if his idea for a low-cost airline that flew out of big markets didn’t take off, he could always go back to being a travel agent. These fallback plans offered varying degrees of psychological security to the brilliant founders who had them, but how much money they could make was far less important than the fact that they could at least be assured of making enough money to live. This was the idea that Jane Wurwand, the creator of Dermalogica, learned from her mother growing up in the United Kingdom. “The five words that changed my life were my mom saying to my sisters and myself, ‘Learn how to do something!’” Jane said. “She was absolutely adamant that each of us had to get a skill so that no matter what happened, if we were somewhere, anywhere, in the world, we would have a skill set in our hands that we could go to work [with] immediately and earn money and keep food on the table.” Jane’s skill was skin care. She began her career in that field by teaching skin care treatments to licensed aestheticians in Marina del Rey, California, at a little place called the International Dermal Institute, that she founded with her husband. Three years later, she recognized an opportunity to create a whole skin care line—twenty-seven products in all—that she could sell to her students and that they in turn could use on their clients at salons around the country. It was a good idea. But in 1986 there was no guarantee that a skin care line wouldn’t completely flop. Fortunately for Jane, if that happened, she still knew how to teach skin care, and with the International Dermal Institute still up and running, she would always have a place to teach it. She would always have money coming in. That is the buoying effect of not quitting your job right away and having a fallback plan for when you do. It’s not so that you’ll have another way to do somethingnew and possibly get rich. Rather, it’s a way to have another shot at doing something you’ve already donebefore so that you don’t go broke while you gather yourself to try again. By doing things smartly and safely like this, you’ll give yourself more time and more room to operate, while simultaneously reducing the chances that failure can ruin your life. Having a fallback plan does not mean you are building an escape hatch from your dream. It’s not an excuse not to try hard, nor is it a ready-made reason to quit. It just means you’ve given yourself a cushion at the bottom of your entrepreneurial leap of faith so that if you do crash, you can bounce back to fight another day. 4 Do Your Research Ireally love talking to creators and digging into the granular details of how they built their products. Every time I learn something new or unexpected from them, which is usually something totally impressive, it makes me sit back in my chair and simply say, “Wow!” I live for those “wow” moments. I love to be blown away by people who were already so inspiring before they walked into my studio or onto whatever stage we were set to share in conversation. Each founder I’ve met has been uniquely impressive, but if there is a characteristic they share that continually grabs me, it’s that all of them have done their homework—about their product, their business, their customers, their industry as a whole—and it has imbued them with a deep confidence in the viability of their ideas. I’ve asked these innovators and idealists thousands of questions over the years, and I can probably count on one hand the number of times they doubted the things they’d built. They knew their ideas would work, becausethey knew their stuff. I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised by this. If most successful founders looked before they leapt off Reid Hoffman’s entrepreneurial cliff, it only makes sense that they also figured out what kind of plane they were going to build in the process of falling. To do that—to know what you’re going to do before you’ve doneit—is to do your research. Lots and lots of research. Every founder does it. Theyhave to. But there is one kind of founder in particular whose story, I think, speaks most strongly to the impact of research. It’s a story that offers the greatest motivation to apprehensive creators and aspiring entrepreneurs, because it involves those who found themselves starting a business within an industry they had absolutely no experience in. Sometimes it’s a product of passion, as it was for Lisa Price and her skin care line, Carol’s Daughter. Sometimes it’s the result of a lack of options, as it was for the founders of Ben & Jerry’s, middle school friends Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield. Ben, an underemployed cabdriver in New York City and a serial college dropout. Jerry, a multiple medical school rejectee working as a lab technician in North Carolina. Both of them willing, in the late 1970s, to “put our fortunes together” for a few years, as Jerry wryly described it, “to open up a little shop.” But just as often, it is a consequence of curiosity and coincidence. Someone goes looking for something that they are sure already exists—a product, a service, a TV show, even a video game, it doesn’t really matter—only to discover that it is nowhere to be found. So they start talking about it in casual conversation to whoever will listen—friends, family, Uber drivers, baristas, professional acquaintances—and they learn that they are not the only one who has been looking for this thing and has come up empty-handed. Then, in realizing that they are not alone, something else happens: the absence of this thing evolves from a minor inconvenience in their life to a real-world problem that, in their estimation, needsto be solved. And they have an idea for how to solve it. It is the stories that follow this particular arc that I am consistently enthralled by. They almost sound like parables—like Icarus crossed with The Little Engine That Could. And what I find to be most thrilling of all—most startling, really—about the heroes of these stories is that their lack of subject matter expertise or institutional knowledge or industry experience was never a deterrent to them. It was actually a blessing. It wasfreedom. Because without the traditional constraints of standard operating procedures or the expectations created by prior generations of similar offerings, these curious individuals were free to ignore all the basic assumptions about the business they were preparing to enter and to figure out how to create the best possible version of the thing they were looking for, in whatever ways made the most sense to them. This is what Jen Rubio did when she created the luggage company Away with her friend Steph Korey. In early 2015, Jen Rubio was in her midtwenties and, by any measure, a total rock star. She was also unemployed. A few months earlier, she’d quit her job as the global head of innovation for the British fashion retailer AllSaints—a position for which she had moved to London from New York in the summer of 2013 after leaving the online eyewear retailer Warby Parker, where she was head of social media. Jen was in between jobs and in between cities. She was also about as far away from the center of the luggage business as you can get for someone with hundreds of thousands of frequent-flier miles under her belt. Then she went skiing in the Swiss Alps with her friends for a week. “I was completely just on a tear around the world, splitting my time between interviewing for jobs that I probably had no business applying for and going on vacation,” Jen said. That’s when, on the way back home, luggage became her life. “I’m in Zurich airport, and my bag breaks,” she recalled. “I’m leaving a trail of my underwear behind me as I’m running through the airport. It was so embarrassing. When I get home, I decide I’m just going to buy a really nice bag that I love and this won’t happen again for a long time. So I go on Facebook and ask my friends what they recommend. Every single person is like, ‘I don’t know,’ or ‘I have this, but don’t get it, it’s awful.’” Not a single person in her large and diverse network of taste-making, style-setting friends had a good answer for her. It was either buy a Tumi bag that costs more than most plane tickets; spend $100 on an American Tourister from a big-box store that looks like everybody else’s luggage; or spend nothing at all for a poorly made piece and hope it makes it down the baggage carousel before totally fallingapart. Those were the options, and none of her friends had any opinion on them, one way or the other, besidesdon’t. “It was so crazy to me that all of these people, including myself, who love to travel really had no connection to this thing that they brought with them on every single trip,” Jen said.