So she set out in search of the perfect bag. “I was on a mission. I was like, ‘There has to be an amazing luggage brand that exists.’ And I couldn’t find one.” Immediately, she began digging into the luggage industry, asking big, open-ended questions both to herself and to everyone she met: “Why doesn’t this luggage brand exist?” “How come buying luggage is so awful?” “How come you have to go into the basement of a department store or, like in New York, all these crazy luggage stores in Midtown that are massive, and there’s a $500 bag next to a $50 bag and they look exactly the same and the luggage salesman is whispering in your ear, ‘I can give you 30 percent off if you buy it right now.’” “Why is this so horrible?” That is when she called her friend Steph Korey, whom she worked with at Warby Parker in the company’s early days. Steph was now in New York, in business school at Columbia University. Simultaneously, she was consulting with the mattress startup Casper in her capacity as a supply chain specialist. It was just going to be one of those friendly check-in calls to see how Steph was doing and maybe take her temperature on an idea. Jen and Steph were supposed to talk for ten minutes. They talked for three hours. “I basically called her with my little baby idea to start a luggage brand,” Jen said, “and she was like, ‘This is it. What we did at Warby Parker, we can do with luggage.’” To be clear, neither woman was really seriously considering starting a new business. Jen was in the final stages of interviewing for (and ultimately getting) a position as vice president of marketing for a big fashion company. Steph was courting offers to become vice president of supply chain for a couple different startups. All Jen really wanted, or so she thought, was a suitcase that she truly loved. From her end, Steph was mostly interested in finding another industry to disrupt in much the same way Warby Parker had disrupted eyeglasses. And yet, without telling each other, when they got off the phone after this marathon conversation, each of them started intensely researching the luggage idea on their own—Jen from the marketing and brand side, Steph from the supply chain and product development side. They couldn’t help themselves. With the dearth of luggage options out there, the more questions these two women with unique skill sets and experience building out trendy yet accessible brands asked, the greater the opportunity they saw. A few weeks later, Jen was in New York to interview for yetanother job (she’d turned down the previous one, but she still wasn’t sure if Steph was really into this venture), and so she decided to go hang out at Steph’s apartment once her interview was over. Then she decided to spend the night. They ended up talking about this luggage idea deep into the morning. When Jen woke up the next day, she didn’t leave— for another three weeks. During that time, sitting right there on Steph Korey’s living room sofa, they essentially founded the company that would become Away. “The first few weeks were just like our intense version of market research,” Jen recalled, “which basically meant we went shopping every single day. We went to every department store. We went to every luggage store. We made these Google maps of different luggage stores around New York and compared all the experiences and all the prices. We kept very meticulous notes on what was out there.” At the same time, they researched and visited factories to figure out what it would take “to cut out the department stores and the bargain basement luggage stores and all of the weird wholesale and retail and licensing markups,” which, according to Jen, is more or less how Warby Parker is able to “make something really high quality at a much more affordable price.” They cut out the middlemen. This was more or less the same business model Steph was helping Casper implement in their attempt to disrupt the mattress market. At this juncture, Jen and Steph still had to figure out the look and feel and function of their bag. “Neither of us had experience making luggage,” Jen said. “Our only experience with luggage was that weowned it.” So they created a survey asking what consumers wanted. It included a list of “every feature imaginable based on what we knew from our research, and we sent the survey out to, like, 100 friends,” Jen told me. Smart, right? “It was the stupidest idea ever,” she said. Wow, okay. “If you have a survey that says ‘What would you like to see in your luggage?’ everything gets checked. It’s not at all indicative of what people actually want or what they would pay for.” Their research had revealed every possible combination of features that could ever exist in a piece of luggage, but the usefulness of that information was inherently limited if they didn’t know how consumers felt about each feature individually and in relation to all the others. It’s like pineapple and pizza: Yes, pineapple is delicious. And, sure, technically youcan put it on pizza. But should you, really? Jen and Steph quickly figured out that they had to narrow the universe of potential features from whatcould go into their luggage to whatshould go into it. To do that, they had to figure out how people actually used their luggage—on business trips, on vacation, on family holidays, on travel of any and every kind. So over the next few months, they talked to nearly 800 people and asked them just that: How do you pack? What do you do right when you get to the hotel? What do you do with your luggage? What do you put in it? What are your biggest pain points when you’re traveling? “We would talk to them about travel and ask them all these open-ended questions,” Jen said. The same kinds of questions Jen asked of the industry as a whole when she first tried to understand it. “With some people who we knew, we would actually go over to their house and watch them pack. And that’s how we figured out all of the things we needed to make . . . our one perfect suitcase.” Of course, the suitcase wasn’t actually perfect. Jen and Steph would go on to iterate and improve on the luggage several more times after the first version, like any smart creator does. That doesn’t meanthe research they did was faulty or that it was less valuable than it could have been. In fact, it wasin valuable. It was the first concrete step they took in a multipart process that helped them refine their design, home in on what really mattered, and leave out all the stuff that wasn’t going to move the needle. It eventually put them in a position to take the next step and pull the trigger on their idea as a full-fledged business. That is exactly what research is supposed to accomplish. It is not meant to be leaned on like a crutch, or deferred to unequivocally, as though it is more relevant than experience or instinct or talent. When a creator goes down that pathway, as I have learned by talking to creators from across industries and disciplines, they risk falling into the trap of crowdsourcing the creative process. And while there is often wisdom in the crowd in certain instances, creativity is not one of them. With look and feel and function, which can involve intensely personal preferences, the crowd can become a shapeless mob with a gravity that even the most experienced entrepreneur can’t predict. Just imagine what could have come from that original list of features Jen and Steph used to survey their 100 friends: zippers and pockets and ports everywhere, infinite color options inside and out, rows of wheels, telescoping handles with shoulder straps and carabiners. It would have looked like afrankencase! There is a famous line from Steve Jobs about this pitfall: “Some people say, ‘Give the customers what they want.’ But that’s not my approach . . . People don’t know what they want until you show it to them.” What a lot of people don’t know is that there is an important insight at the end of that quote that, inexplicably, always gets cut off, and that statement from Jobs is particularly relevant here: “That’s why I never rely on market research.” All the market research Jen and Steph accumulated—all the comparison shopping they did on price, design, and purchase experience—it wasn’t so they could just collate it and regurgitate it back out into the marketplace to give people what theysaid they wanted. Rather, it was to build a foundation of knowledge on which they could leverage their creative instincts and their professional judgment, in order to truly innovate and deliver what dissatisfied luggage customers like them reallyneeded. Talking to Jen Rubio about the role that research plays for creators and entrepreneurs reminded me of how athletes talk about practice, or how actors approach rehearsal. It’s deep work and repetition that sear the fundamentals into your muscle memory. They help you understand how to do things and why you should do them in a certain way, so when the lights come on and it’s time to do something for real, you can put all that prep work away and just act or play or build. You can create freely, without reservation or hesitation. When Jen and Steph introduced their first bag—what would become “The Carry-On” in the language of their simply named product lines—it had a USB charger, a removable laundry bag, an indestructible outer shell, and 360-degree wheels. Each of these features, along with the $225 price tag and direct-to-consumer delivery, was deliberately selected as part of a product marketing strategy that was developed from all their research but not defined or decided by it. Jen and Steph didn’t blindly follow the whims of the first 100 friends they polled or the 800 people they interviewed afterward. Instead, they banked all that knowledge and then applied their own judgment, instincts, aesthetics, skills, and experience to it. The results were undeniable. They officially formed Away as a real business in early 2015. By February of the following year, they had seed funding, a big feature piece in Voguemagazine, and 2,000 suitcases in hand from a manufacturer in China—each piece of luggage spoken for by customers who’d never touched or even seen one of the suitcases up close. That first full year in operation, they sold 55,000 suitcases. Not long after, they added “The Bigger Carry-On,” “The Medium,” and “The Large,” to create a full line of suitcases.