Within three years, they solda millionpieces. Wow. In many ways, this is a model for creativity, whether you are inside a company as an employee or you’re an industry outsider with a good idea and an itch for entrepreneurship. It is a playbook for innovation, no matter who you are or what you want to build. This is nota playbook Jen and Steph wrote themselves, to be sure. It’s not as if they were trying to reach new heights in data-driven product development with their research. But the nature of their research is not what makes their story so inspiring and relevant; it’s the relatability. When Daymond John enlisted the help of local silk-screen printers and embroidery shops in the early days of FUBU, he didn’t know where to go or what to do. He was a waiter from Queens. So he pulled out the yellow pages (remember those?) and cold-called every listing he could find. He researched them. Then he got up every morning at 6 a.m. and took the train to New Jersey—which was the self-proclaimed “embroidery capital of the world” at the time—checking out all the shops until he found the right one for his budget and his needs. Little more than a decade earlier, when Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield decided to open their “little shop,” they “sent away for thirty SBA [Small Business Administration] pamphlets on all the different aspects of running a business,” Ben recalled. When they decided their shop would serve ice cream (because bagel-making equipment—their other idea—was too expensive), they spent most of their time “doing a lot of research on a business plan for an ice cream shop . . . and taking this correspondence course in how to make ice cream.” Like Daymond, they “spent a lot of time with the yellow pages.” Twenty years after Daymond’s march through the “E” and “S” sections of the phone book, a professional soccer player from New Zealand named Tim Brown did something very similar in his quest to make a simple, clean, comfortable lace-up sneaker. “A creative problem that feels like it needs to be solved,” as Tim put it, sent him in search of a footwear factory that would let him visit so he could learn the ins and outs of how shoes are made. “It was like the university application process: I was spraying and praying.” Eventually, a factory in Indonesia opened its doors to Tim, and he “walked into this world that was intriguing and surprisingly complicated and incredibly old-fashioned in the way that it worked. And I realized my innovation alarm was going off, because I’d ask these really, really simple questions, and no one could give me a clear answer.” Like Jen and Steph, Tim decided he was going to be the one to solve this creative problem and answer the questions the shoe manufacturers couldn’t. Five years later, he launched the idea on Kickstarter. Two years after that, barely a month after Away delivered its first 2,000 suitcases, Tim, now with a partner named Joey Zwillinger, turned that idea into a company called Allbirds. And two years after that, it was worth $1.4 billion. Apparel. Ice cream. Footwear. Luggage. They’re all different, but they’re all the same. There is nothing special about any of these industries that makes them uniquely suited for new entrants or for disruption. Similarly, there isn’t anything innate in Jen and Steph, or Daymond or Tim, or Ben and Jerry, that made them uniquely suited as creators to be the new kids on their respective blocks. But they are fantastic examples of founders who did their homework to fill in the gaps in their understanding, so that the things they set out to build did not topple for lack of a sturdy foundation. They relied on research to teach them how to build a plane—which gave them the confidence to lean on their instincts and trust their creative visions when it came time to decide exactly what kind of plane they wanted to build and fly. This has been a winning combination countless times in the history of new ideas. It’s one any of us can commit to when we set out to create something new—when we decide to take our own leap off the cliff of entrepreneurship. 5 Find Your Co-founder When we think about the founding of our most famous modern companies, it’s amazing how often only a handful of names come to mind: Zuckerberg. Jobs. Bezos. Musk. Gates. Ellison. The truth is, we love origin stories almost as much as we love heroes and the idea of singular exceptionalism. So we tend to exalt many of our modern founders. We regard them as mythical figures of unique ability. We even call their companiesunicorns when they become super successful. And yet, time and again, when I meet the founder of an amazing company that has done wonderful things, I find myself listening not so much to the story of a great idea born of singular brilliance, but to the triumph of a good idea in the hands of a perfect partnership. In my experience, it seems that partnerships have been the rule, not the exception; and as Paul Graham wrote in his famous 2006 essay about the mistakes that kill startups (“single founder” being number one), “It seems unlikelythis is a coincidence.” It makes sense when you consider that we are not solitary creatures. Human beings are social animals. We live in groups. We work in teams. We mate in pairs. We thrive when we are together. It is as true in life as it is in business. “Even companies you think of as having one founder, like Oracle, usually turn out to have more,” Graham wrote. Indeed, the truth is that virtually no company is the creation of a single individual, but rather the product of a partnership, or even a group of co-founders. Just look at the entrepreneurs we’ve met so far. Jen Rubio probably didn’tneed Steph Korey to design the first Away bag. After all, Jen was the one with the marketing and design sensibility. It’s possible Jen didn’t even need Steph to get the bag made. But to get it manufactured at scale? At the right price point? And distributed seamlessly directly to consumers? Well, that was all Steph. Heck, Steph probably didn’t need Jen either. Jen once joked to me that if Billy McFarland had recruited Steph in 2015 instead of Jen recruiting her, Steph probably would have saved the infamous Fyre Festival with her logistics acumen. Regardless, without Jen there would be no bag. And without Steph there would be no distribution model. And withoutboth of themthere would be no Away, period. Lisa Price made fantastic lotions and butters, but she didn’t even think about selling them asproducts until her mother pushed her to set up a table at their church flea market. And the fledgling business probably never would have gotten the traction it needed within the “sister-girl network” without Lisa’s husband, Gordon, who not only helped Lisa identify them as her first, core market, but also worked hard in scribbling down orders off their answering machine so she could fulfill them. Jim Koch had five generations of brewers’ wisdom to lean on as well as an old family recipe to tinker with as he created Samuel Adams Boston Lager, but the secret ingredient in Sam Adams as a startup business came in the form of Rhonda Kallman, his twenty-three-year-old assistant at Boston Consulting Group. At first glance, a management consultant and an assistant quitting their jobs to start a company together sounds like something yanked straight out of the logline of a Hollywood romantic comedy. It has a very Jerry Maguirevibe to it. In reality, of all the people Jim knew, there was no one better suited than Rhonda to join him on this entrepreneurial journey. “I looked around BCG, full of the best and the brightest from the top business schools,” Jim recalled, “and I realized there was this person here who was energetic, talented, resourceful, a great people person—she had all of the skills I don’t really have. She was my secretary. We were the perfect complement.” Jim was the brewmaster; Rhonda was the practical one. Together they founded Boston Beer Company, which was profitable from its very first month. Whether he knew it at the time or not, Jim had arrived at the most powerful reason every entrepreneur should look for a co-founder when they have an idea and are thinking about starting a business: You need a partner whose skill set complements yours. Someone who not only shares your vision but elevates it and holds you accountable to it; who does what you cannot; who thinks and sees things in a way you don’t; whose strengths compensate for your weaknesses, and vice versa. This kind of yin-yang approach happens all the time. For example, you could not find two more different yet complementary people than Adam Lowry and Eric Ryan. They’re the co-founders of the household cleaning product manufacturer Method, which is famous for its teardrop-shaped soap bottle that’s pretty enough to keep out on the counter instead of hidden away under the sink with all the other industrial-strength cleansers. Childhood friends from Grosse Pointe, Michigan, Adam and Eric went to college on opposite sides of the country for very different purposes—Adam to Stanford for chemical engineering, Eric to Rhode Island for business—before reuniting in San Francisco in the late 1990s, entirely by chance. “It was Thanksgiving one year, maybe 1997 or 1998. I walk onto the plane, and I see Eric,” Adam told me of their encounter on the way home for the holiday. “He’d only moved to San Francisco a couple weeks prior. There was an open seat. I ended up sitting next to him on the plane, and for five hours we got all caught up. It turned out we were living on the exact same block.” Within a year, they were roommates, Eric joining Adam and three other guys in a house that Adam described as “exactly as clean as you would expect it to be.” Still, despite the convergence of their lives, their career paths continued in different directions. Adam was at the Carnegie Institution for Science working on environmental issues. Eric was at an advertising agency called Hal Riney & Partners working on product campaigns. Their perspectives on entrepreneurship were equally dissimilar. “I knew since the third grade I wanted to be an entrepreneur,” Eric said. “I was the annoying neighborhood kid who was constantly selling buttons or anything else I could. So I always knew I wanted to start a company.” Which was a big part of the reason he gravitated toward advertising and branding after college. Adam’s path, however, was “less predestined,” as he put it.