Not only was he a “big believer in that you don’t need to figure out what you need to do with your life,” but he was also “motivated by creating some sort of good change in the world.” Today, that is practically the entrance exam for entrepreneurship, but back in the 1990s, not so much. Then over Christmas in 1999, their professional journeys began to converge, this time on a ski trip. Months earlier, Eric had been working on a big project for Colgate Palmolive, spending a lot of his time in grocery stores, specifically in the cleaning aisle. “It was such a big category but a sea of sameness,” Eric said. “Everything looked and smelled the same. The brands were pretty dated. And so that was kind of a clue to dig there.” Which he did, much the way Jen Rubio and Steph Korey did . . . except more quietly. Eric bought a variety of items from different cleaning product categories and took them home to do his own version of a competitor analysis—which he then hid under his bed because he didn’t feel like he had anyone to talk to who would understand what he was thinking. “It’s pretty dorky,” he said about his idea. “I didn’t want anybody to know I was even thinking about this category.” Not even his mom, who said to him at one point early on, “I’ve never even seen you make a bed. Are you sure you’re the right person to start a cleaning products business?” By himself? Maybe not. But with a partner, who knows? The famous American writer and polymath Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. wrote in 1872, “Many ideas grow better when transplanted into another mind than in the one where they sprang up.” * On their drive to their ski vacation, Eric planted the seed in Adam’s mind. “I felt like Adam was somebody I could share an idea with, so I mentioned that, hey, there may be an opportunity in this space,” Eric said. “And I remember Adam looked over at me as he’s driving and goes, ‘You know, I have a degree in chemical engineering . . .’” It hadn’t even occurred to Eric that Adam’s degree would be useful. But, of course, it was not only useful, it was essential. Adam then made another point. “I said, ‘Well, you know, not only are these products really ugly, but did you know they’re super toxic as well?’” “That was the thing that Adam brought up that really opened my eyes,” Eric said. “You mean, you actually pollute when you clean, and you use poison to make your home healthier?” By the time they’d finished their first couple runs on the mountain that morning, the idea that Eric had planted in Adam had already sprouted and begun to grow. This wasn’t just about better-looking, better-smelling cleaning products anymore; it was about making them better for you and for the environment. When they got back to San Francisco a few days later, Adam moved a desk into Eric’s room, where he spent his days researching the different cleaning product categories from the chemistry side, † while Eric finished up work on the Colgate project at his agency job, getting more brand experience in that world and learning even more about consumers. Together, both at night and on weekends, they worked on their business plan. Things moved quickly after that. By mid-2000, Eric was busy searching for the ideal bottle type and shape, along with someone to design, tool, and produce it. At the same time, Adam was working to perfect his cleaning formulas, mixing in five-gallon buckets a host of different substances that he hadstored in individual sixteen-ounce jars, all of this in the kitchen of the home they still shared with three other guys. “I came home one day, and Adam was mixing things in beer pitchers, and I was like, ‘We’re going to kill one of our roommates here,’” Eric recalled. “Luckily, the stuff was nontoxic,” he said, laughing at the craziness of the scene. That “stuff” eventually became a four-product line of surface cleaners that combined beautiful design and nontoxic ingredients. In 2001, it, and they, officially became Method. Method was the perfect marriage of Adam’s and Eric’s differing skill sets and sensibilities. “Our joke was ‘style and substance’: Adam working on basically everything in the bottle, and me doing everything around the bottle,” Eric said. “A lot of it just came down to our own dumb luck of Adam’s passion for sustainability and mine for design.” You can never discount the importance of luck—even dumb luck—in the success of any new idea. But luck certainly doesn’t fully explain how Method cleaning products landed on Target shelves within a year, or how the business became profitable within five years, or how it reached $100 million in sales within the decade. For that, I believe, you have to look at this perfect partnership between Eric Ryan and Adam Lowry. Two men, one an extrovert, the other an introvert; one who runs at a problem, the other who “needs a little bit more space to think it through”; one an aesthetically driven businessman, the other a socially conscious, purpose-driven engineer. Both of them equally committed to a vision for a beautiful, environmentally friendly line of cleaning products—“eco-chic,” as the category came to be called—and to doing everything it took to execute that two-pronged mission. “Traditionally, green products didn’t look beautiful, and beautiful products weren’t necessarily green,” Eric explained. “That’s the paradigm we really broke.” In the end, my favorite part of Eric and Adam’s story is all the serendipity and the bits of interesting timing that are baked into it. Growing up together. Moving away in different directions. Bumping into each other on a plane, only to find out they now lived on the same block. Coming up with an idea for, of all things, soap —or as Eric put it, “an idea that was hot 120 years ago”—at a time andin a place where investors were throwing suitcases full of money at tech startups. But at the same time, consumers were also “starting to think more about their homes as reflections of themselves,” especially with the recent introduction of IKEA to America and HGTV (Home & Garden Television) to national cable packages. It all just seems so unlikely! Adam Lowry may have felt like his path to entrepreneurship was less than predestined, but to me stories like his and Eric’s, stories like Method’s, always feel as though they have a bit of that fatefulness to them: the right idea in the right place, at the right time, with the right people. And it is the people part of that equation that is most interesting to me about Method, at least as it relates to bringing new ideas into the world. Because just as Away is a prime example of how doing your research opens any industry to the inexperienced and uninitiated if they have a good idea, Method shows that finding the right partner can unlockany good idea, no matter how arcane or esoteric or beyond its sell-by date it may seem. This is not some revolutionary insight on my part. Many of the same founders I talked about at the beginning of this chapter, whom we have now elevated to godlike status in our culture, have talked openly about the importance of the partners they had in their early fight to bring their ideas to fruition, many of them while the fight was still happening. “My best business decisionsreally have to do with picking people,” Bill Gates said in a 1998 conversation with Warren Buffett on the campus of the University of Washington. “Deciding to go into partnership with Paul Allen is probably at the top of the list . . . Having somebody who you totally trust, who’s totally committed, who shares your vision and yet has a little bit different set of skills, and also acts as a check on you—and just the benefit of sparking off of somebody who’s got that kind of brilliance—it’s not only made it fun, but it’s really led to a lot of success.” In a 1985 Playboyinterview, Apple co-founder Steve Jobs talked about the importance of both his partner Steve Wozniak’s differing interests and their sharedlack of a vision. “Neither of us had any ideathat this would go anywhere,” Jobs said. “Woz was motivated by figuring things out. He concentrated more on the engineering and proceeded to do one of his most brilliant pieces of work, which was the disk drive that made the Apple II a possibility. I was trying to build the company . . . I don’t think it would have happened without Woz and I don’t think it would have happened without me.” The power of partnership is not just a modern tech phenomenon. Partnerships are a hallmark in the history of innovation, regardless of the industry. Many of them are cultural icons we know by the name on the door: Ben and Jerry. Hewlett and Packard. Harley and Davidson. Wells and Fargo. Procter and Gamble (with whom Adam and Eric were in direct competition, incidentally). As for Warren Buffett and his part in that conversation with Bill Gates in 1998, he was in complete agreement about the importance of picking people: “I’ve had a partner like that, Charlie Munger, for a lot of years, and it does for me exactly what Bill is talking about.” As unlikely as many of these successful partnerships seem, to me at least, they do not appear to be entirely the product of chance. Adam and Eric were childhood friends. Gates and Allen went to high school together. Steve Wozniak lived across the street from Steve Jobs’s only friend at the Cupertino, California, high school Jobs attended. Jen Rubio and Steph Korey worked together. Charlie Munger worked in Warren Buffett’s grandfather’s store. There are also countless marriages at the center of the founding of great brands: Kate Spade, Dermalogica, Stacy’s Pita Chips, Drybar, Lonely Planet, Melissa & Doug, to name just a few. I suppose you could say there is a faithfulness behind the fatefulness of their success. A commitment to a preexisting relationship that was proof, by virtue of its very existence, that each partner could trust the other to have their best interests at heart. Knowing that they always had a port in the storm. A port much closer to home than you might expect for something like an entrepreneurial venture. This is the other reason to find a co-founder. A reason whose impact you cannot really divine from the market research and whose value you cannot track on a P&L statement. It’s the real reason Jim Koch was looking for a partner when he found Rhonda Kallman right under his nose.