With no money. On “half a shoestring,” as Joe said. They launched the site with six listings, just in time for the conference. Unfortunately, only two people booked. And one of them was Brian. “It was completely demoralizing,” Joe said. “Here was this idea that we were so excited about, and nobody took us up on the idea.” But they realized a couple key things in the process. One was that exchanging money in person, especially in a home, is really weird, so they should probably have the financial transaction piece online. The second was that there may be people who like to travel for reasons other than conferences, who are also interested in the idea of staying in someone’s home—with or without the air mattress, ostensibly—so maybe this idea shouldn’t just be tied to conference sites. “We said, ‘Well, let’s add payments, and let’s make this a travel site,” Joe said. “And that’s when we had an idea, which was to relaunch this new version of our service at the crest of a tidal wave of press.” In 2008, there was a tsunami of attention spreading across the country. It was following the historically seismic candidacy of Barack Obama for the presidency of the United States, and that summer it was set to crash into Denver, Colorado, at the Democratic National Convention, where Obama was going to speak and accept the Democratic nomination for president. This presented a unique opportunity. “A hundred thousand people were anticipated to see Obama speak, and there were less than 30,000 hotel rooms, most of which were picked up by delegates,” Joe remembered. It was a legitimate housing crisis. At one point, Denver’s mayor even considered opening the city’s parks to campers. Suddenly, there was a real need for the service that Joe, Brian, and Nate were trying to bring into being. They just had to get the word out. “We thought what if we timed the relaunch of our service during the DNC? We can ride the coattails of all the Obama press to bring a lot of awareness to this marketplace,” Joe said. So that’s exactly what they did. While Nate worked on shifting the website from its conference orientation to a travel focus and then adding an online payment function, Joe and Brian flew to Denver. They talked to anyone who would give them ten minutes until they finally started to get some traction. “We got local press, which turned into the regional press, which turned into national press,” Joe said. Joe and Brian even did a live interview with CNN from their living room. Within a matter of four weeks after the convention, they managed to add 800 homes to their website and process 100 bookings. “I thought that this was it,” Joe said. “This was our rocket ship to the moon.” And they’d bootstrapped the entire thing. More than that, they’d shown proof of concept; they’d evinced their own worthiness as smart, agile entrepreneurs; and best of all, they controlled 100 percent of the business. What better time to pursue investment (like the Method guys did) than when it feels like your new venture is headed into the stratosphere and you’re in control at the helm? Through their connections in San Francisco, Joe and Brian were introduced to twenty different investors from Sand Hill Road. They emailed each one of them their pitch deck. But it didn’t go great. “Ten of them reply to our email. Five of them meet us for coffee. Zero invested in us.” Joe rattled off the decreasing cascade of increasingly horrible numbers like they’d been stitched into his entrepreneurial DNA. “I didn’t have anything else going on in my life except this. And to put it in front of very credible investors—the guys who have picked the Googles and PayPals and YouTubes of the world—and have them look you square in the eye and go, ‘Well, this is weird,’” Joe said, his voice trailing off. “Two thousand eight was the worst year of my life.” In theory, this should have been the end of Airbedandbreakfast.com. And in a way, it was. Or at least it was the beginning of the end. That’s because within eight months, the name would be shortened to Airbnb; the trio of co-founders would be accepted to, and then graduate from, the Y Combinator startup incubator; and their fledgling website would have 10,000 users and 2,500 listings. This all happened, ironically, all because of two boxes of cereal and a binder full of credit cards. “You know those binders where you keep baseball cards?” Joe asked me when I was curious how they managed to keep going after striking out with investors. “I had one of those, except there weren’t baseball cards in it. There were credit cards. We would go through Visa after Visa to Mastercard and finally to Amex, just maxing out the credit cards. And that’s how we funded ourselves.” They called it “the Visa round.” It kept the lights on and the servers running, but that was about it. “There’s no worse feeling than getting a credit card statement that’s only going up, with no hope of ever paying it down,” Joe said. Then late one night, during the lead-up to the 2008 presidential election, Joe and Brian were sitting in their kitchen, spitballing ways to add value to their service. They’d handled the “bed” part of Airbedandbreakfast.com, they figured, but what about the “breakfast” part? What had they really done on that end? “Maybe we give our hosts some breakfast cereal to give to their guests,” Joe said, recapitulating his conversation with Brian. “Wouldn’t it be funny if it was politically themed? We could call it ‘Obama O’s: The Breakfast of Change.’ Or maybe ‘Captain McCain’s: A Maverick in Every Bite.’” If you think that sounds more like the product of a 2 a.m. pity party than a focused brainstorming session, you’re right. “We were just trying to keep each other’s spirits up at this point,” Joe said. Except for one small detail: they actually went forth and made the breakfast cereal! They didn’t just make the cereal either. They merchandised and promoted it. Brian went out and bought 500 bags of generic cereal. Joe art-directed and hired an illustrator, again from their network—a RISD alum who would work on commission as a favor. Realizing that they had a limited edition series on their hands now, they built a website for each brand of cereal; sent 100 boxes to every media outlet they had contact information for, including the ones they’d gotten press coverage from during the Democratic National Convention a month earlier; numbered the boxes 1 to 500; and then sold them online for $40 apiece. The idea worked. They got a ton of pressand they sold all the cereal. I was absolutely blown away by this part of the Airbnb story. But it triggered a question: What was the point? How was this really going to help Airbedandbreakfast.com? Joe’s answer was that it wasn’t. Or, more precisely, that it didn’t really matter. “At $40 a box times 500 boxes, we made $20,000 in breakfast cereal,” Joe explained, “which was just enough to pay off our credit cards.” Obama O’s and Cap’n McCain’s didn’t fuel the Airbnb rocket ship, but it kept them going long enough for them to get accepted into Y Combinator’s winter class that year. In fact, it was the ingenuity they displayed in making the cereal, not actually their Airbnb idea, that convinced Y Combinator co-founder Paul Graham to find a place for them in the program. “Through the breakfast cereal, we had proven to him that we had hustle, we had grit,” Joe said. “If we could figure out how to sell breakfast cereal for $40 a box, we could figure out how to make our website work.” With Graham’s guidance, they got even grittier, even scrappier. He gave them permission to do things that didn’t scale in order to solve the immediate problems that were standing in the way of their growth. They began by digging into the website’s search results, looking for positive trends they could exploit and negative trends they could nip in the bud. The first pattern they recognized was that the listings that did the poorest tended to have the worst photos. “People were using their camera phones. They were taking pictures of their homes at night. They were not merchandising their home in a way that made people want to stay there, so no one was booking them,” Joe said. Most of the picture issues were occurring with listings in New York City, which, at the time, was their biggest market. This presented them with a unique opportunity to cut off a negative trend while building on a positive one. Joe had taken some photography classes while he was enrolled at RISD. He was “willingto bet that if we just flew out there for a weekend, we could probably take some nicer photos. We wouldn’t charge them for it. We’d do it for free.” So Brian and Joe got on a plane to New York, rented a really nice camera, emailed all thirty of their New York City–based hosts with their offer, and then went door-to-door across the city’s five boroughs: Brian and Joe as Airbnb co-founders. Joe also as their professional in-house photographer. And the photos he ended up taking were very good. “I’m getting the lighting right, the composition,” he explained. “I’m kind of staging the place a little bit, and I show the photos on the back of the camera, and these hosts are like, ‘Oh my God, my apartment looks amazing, I can’t believe it! Do you want to stay for some tea or coffee?’” Of course they’d say yes, and end up spending, in some cases, hours in the homes of their earliest adopters, talking to them about their lives and their experiences with the website. It pushed Brian and Joe right into what Joe called “design research mode.” “So here we are in the living room, they pull out their laptop, and I say, ‘Could you show me how you check your calendar?’ ‘Show me how you message with guests?’” Joe recalled. “And in those moments, we see how our perfectly designed interface completely and utterly failed. What we thought took only two or three clicks, people needed ten or twelve clicks [to accomplish]. They were stumbling around, getting lost within our own website.” Worst of all for Joe, Brian, and Nate was that up until that fateful weekend in New York, in the first cold months of 2009, they had no idea this was an issue. “But once we did, it was like a jackpot,” Joe said. “We came back with all of our discoveries and designed for them, and our numbers that second week went from $200 a week in fees, which is what we were making for six months and was not sustainable—three guys cannot live off of that in San Francisco—to $400 in one week.” Their numbersdoubled.