Sure enough, it was primarily due to an increase in bookings with the hosts they’d met and taken pictures for in New York. Not coincidentally, once they figured out and solved the photo issue, organic growth began to happen, investors started sniffing around, and Airbnb as we now know it began to take shape. It is fair to say, in my opinion, that this $30 billion–plus juggernaut that has redefined hospitality and challenged expectations with regard to travel and tourism around the world is here today in no small measure because of the relentless efforts made by Joe Gebbia, Brian Chesky, and Nathan Blecharczyk to keep it alive. They bootstrapped the business for two solid years, through website rebuilds, business model pivots, press inquiries, photo shoots, credit card debt, and mountains of ramen. “Cereal, too,” Joe would be quick to add. At first they bootstrapped it because they wanted to, because it was the smart thing to do. Then they bootstrapped it because theyhad to, because it was theonly thing to do. Many of the most admired figures in Silicon Valley know the value of bootstrapping and have exhorted aspiring founders to embrace it. Ron Conway, the “Godfather of Silicon Valley,” once advised entrepreneurs that “bootstrapping as long as you canis the best thing for the company because you own the entire company . . . Use your credit cards, do anything you can so that by the time you go to angels you have built a working prototype and have some users. You’ll likely be valued higher and will suffer less dilution.” In 2015, Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator, took to Twitter in defense of bootstrapping. “In our experienceat YC,” he wrote, “the best companies do amazing things on small amounts of money.” He continued, “We especially love companiesthat can do a lot with little capital. It works much more often than those who do a little with a lot.” Bootstrapping works. But it’s also very hard. It takes an uncommon effort to achieve uncommon results. Which is what a successful startup is: uncommon. Don’t mistake this for negativity, by the way. I am forever a cautious optimist. I know success is possible. I know thatyou can do this. But I also know that there is one type of business for which bootstrapping never works: the type run by someone who isn’t passionate enough about their idea to put in the long days and the endless weeks required; who doesn’t care enough to get on that plane to New York or to max out all their credit cards to keep the servers running. To bootstrap your business right, and to do it well, you need toknow what you’re facing, what will be expected of you. Can it be scary to rack up that kind of debt while trying to start a business? Sure. But if you ask Jim Koch, it’s not nearly as scary (or dangerous) asnot trying to start your business at all. Does too much ramen and not enough sleep sound like a nightmare? It’ll definitely leave you salty, but it’s not unbearable. If you have another marketable skill, like Jane Wurwand, or you keep your other job for as long as possible, like Daymond John, you’ll always have a soft spot to land if you decide you want to wake up from the dream of entrepreneurship. These are understandable concerns if you are an apprehensive first-time founder. Remember that cliff you’ve just jumped off and that plane you’re trying to build? Well, the ground comes up at you faster than you think. There’s no getting around that. But if the experiences of the Method and Airbnb co-founders teach us anything, it’s that if you work fast and smart and hard and together, you can meet the rising challenge of starting a business before it meets you, face-first. 7 Get Your Story Straight In December 2019, I had the opportunity to speak to Procter & Gamble’s marketing team about storytelling at the company’s global headquarters in Cincinnati, Ohio. P&G is a 180-year-old multinational conglomerate that owns more than sixty brands, nearly twenty of which are worth more than a billion dollars each. Judging by numbers alone, P&G has figured a few things out since its founding in 1837. Before I spoke, I was given a tour of the sprawling downtown campus, which includes a small museum that traces the history of the company and maintains a meticulous archive of all the products that P&G has either created or acquired over the years. Moving through the exhibits, I was amazed to learn the origin stories of so many products that have become household names, most notably Crest Whitestrips and Swiffer. Crest Whitestrips was the result of a brainstorming session between somebody who worked on Cling Wrap and somebody working in the toothpaste division after they had lunch in the P&G cafeteria one day. Swiffer began as a crude combination of a broomstick attached to a bottle of Mr Clean, with Always maxi pads affixed to the bottom—both of which are P&G products. What is most amazing to me about these stories, and the stories of dozens of other iconic P&G brands, isn’t just that they were the products of internal innovation and collaboration, but that so few consumers know any of those fascinating details. Procter & Gamble is one of the biggest consumer packaged goods companies in the world, and yet very few people would connect them with the word “innovation.” They spend more than $1 billion a year in advertising, but neither that word nor any of these origin stories are anywhere to be found in their ads—not in print ads, not on TV, not in radio spots. Instead, P&G advertising tends to focus on utility and effectiveness. It focuses on what the products can do for you, to the virtual exclusion of how the brand relates to you. It’s a strategy that works, of course—P&G had nearly $68 billion in sales in 2019—but it works only to a point, and only so far as the money you spend to get the word out will take you. So, what if you don’t have a billion-dollar ad budget? Or any ad budget at all? Or you just want to spend less and be similarly effective in reaching your target consumers? This, it turns out, is what I could teach Procter & Gamble’s marketing team about storytelling: Telling your story is a more cost-effective way to take your advertising beyond usefulness and efficacy and efficiency as topics of conversation. It’s like a growth hack that enables consumers to connect to your brand in a deeper, more personal way, which is a big part of how you differentiate and de-commodify your product, create brand loyalty, and set yourself up for long-term success. While many legacy companies struggle to see the innovation and origin stories right under their noses, it is nevertheless as true for them as it is for young upstart brands that their business is a story—thatevery business is a story. The story, more than anything else, is what connects you and me and everyone out there to the thing you’re building. And every defining element of that thing you’re building, of that business, helps to tell its story. This goes from the name and the logo, to the function of the product or the style of the service, to the partners who founded it, all the way to the customers who patronize it. The purpose of that story changes with time and with whom it isbeing told to, but fundamentally its goal is to answer a hundred different variations on one simple question: Why? Whyshould I buy your product? Whyshould I join this company? Whyshould I be excited to work here? Whyshould I invest in this company? These are just a few of the variations identified by Ben Horowitz, the brilliant tech entrepreneur, best-selling author, and co-founder of the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. He described in 2010 how his company evaluates CEOs, whose main job, he contends, is to be “the keeper of the visionand the story.” A few years later, in talking to Forbes, Horowitz put the role of the company’s story even more succinctly: “The story must explainat a fundamental level why you exist.” It is a story you have to tell to your customers, to investors, to employees, and ultimately to yourself. Kind of in that order, in fact—from the bottom up, like the old food pyramid or Maslow’s legendary hierarchy of needs. One of the reasons for this approach seems pretty obvious: in most markets there are already plenty of options to choose from, so you need to give us a really compelling reason why we should choose yours. And in the cases where you’re making something no one has ever seen before, when you’re creating an entirely new market, it’s not always immediately clear what we have been missing. As such, you need to tell us why we need to choose anything new at all. The other, slightly more complicated reason you need a terrific story is that there are so many other questions one could ask in an effort to understand why you exist, and your current answers don’t reveal very much: what you do, where you do it, how you do it, whom you do it for. Those are just discoverable facts. I can search for them on Google. I can buy market research reports. I can hire someone to reverse engineer your product or go through your process. I can read books and articles about all of it. But the key here is: Why do you do what you do? Or, Why should we care? I can’t know the answers to those questions until you, asthe founder, want me to know them, because they exist first in your mind. And like most concepts that are unquantifiable, the answers to these basic questions are usually best understood and best shared with the world through a story. Whitney Wolfe has a story. She knows it well. To hear her tell it is to get to know her and the history of her dating app, Bumble. It is to know what she is trying to do with her app, why we shouldall care about it, and how it has managed to succeed despite the fact that by the end of 2014, when Bumble was launched, if there was one thing the world didn’t need any more of, it was dating apps. There was already Match.com, Plenty of Fish, OkCupid, eHarmony, and Hinge, along with all the niche sites, such as Jdate, BlackPlanet, Christian Mingle, and, way on the other end of the spectrum, SeekingArrangement and Ashley Madison. And then there was Tinder, the behemoth, which Whitney co-foundedin 2012 and had recently left under some of the worst possible circumstancesnot just for a co-founder but for a woman and a human being.