There was both a professional and a romantic splitwith one of her co-founders, there was a very public sexual harassment lawsuit, and there was an avalanche of despicably hurtful online vitriolaimed directly at her. By the time she left Tinder in early 2014, Whitney wasn’t just done with the dating business, she was done, period. “I was at the very bottom of my barrel,” Whitney told me in our 2017 interview. “There were days where I didn’t want to live. I didn’t want to get out of bed. I wanted to die.” Whitney wasn’t even twenty-five years old at the time, and the internet had utterly broken her. All this begs the questions: Why another online business? Why anotherdating app? And why so soon? Well, part of the agony that Whitney was feeling was this nagging sense that her story wasn’t unique. It was much bigger than herself, bigger than Tinder, bigger even than dating as an industry. There was a real problem out there with a lack of online accountability, and whatever she may have gone through—however horrible it might have been—what was even worse to her was that thirteen-year-old girls were seeing all of this on their phones all day, every day. “And it scared me,” she said. “So I sat down and said, ‘I can start something right now. And I can change what I hate that I see in the world.’” Originally, her new idea had nothing to do with dating. It was a female-only social network that she called Merci, where women could use only compliments to respond to one another’s posts and messages. “I really wanted to build this platform that was rooted in kindness and positive behavior,” she said. “The antidote to what I experienced online.” She’d gotten as far as a fully fleshed-out marketing plan—marketing was Whitney’s expertise—when in July 2014 she was approached by Andrey Andreev, the London-based entrepreneur who had built a number of successful companies by this time, including Badoo, the world’s most popular dating site outside of the United States. Andrey wanted to hire Whitney to be Badoo’s chief marketing officer, which was a nonstarter as far as Whitney was concerned. “That’s just off the table,” she told him. “I don’t want to touch a dating app. That’s not going to be my future. I’m going to start my own business, and I want it to be mission driven, and I want it to be impactful, and Idon’twant it to be in dating.” So she pitched himher idea instead. She laid out the whole vision for Merci and answered each of the tough questions you’d expect from a successful entrepreneur and startup investor like Andreev. Whitney remembered that with each answer she gave, it was clear Andreev could sense her passion for her idea and her commitment to its mission, which was heartening. “You need to build this,” he said, “but you need to do it in dating. This has to happen. What you’re trying to doneeds to be done in dating.” I can only imagine how Whitney felt at that moment. She was mere months removed from having her life turned upside down, in part by her very public departure from one dating app, and now the founder of another wanted to hire her but didn’t seem tohear her. To Whitney’s immense credit, though, she took a beat and really considered what Andrey was trying to say. “I thought to myself, ‘Maybe he’s got a point. Maybe dating isbroken,’” Whitney recounted of her initial meeting with Andrey. “ ‘Maybe connecting is broken beyond just being a young woman talking to a young woman in junior high. Maybe this is something that affects us at all ages.’” By the end of that first encounter, Whitney and Andrey had a handshake deal. They would build her idea, but as a dating app, and they’d do it together. Within a few weeks, they had a team of fantastic designers assembled, and Whitney had the key functionality that would distinguish her dating app from all the others. This is how she described it: “I always wanted to text the guy first. But I was never allowed to because society and my friends said no. So I said to the team, ‘We’re going to reverse engineer this: You’re going to mutually match with each other, but women have to send the first message. They have twenty-four hours to do it—which would give them a kind of incentive—and if they don’t, the match disappears forever.’” It was completely different from anything that had existed in the dating space to that point. It now put the ball squarely in the woman’s court, whereas before men were expected to be the pursuers, while women were expected to be elusive at best, and supplicants at worst. * “You’re telling men to be overtly aggressive, and you’re telling women to be the inverse of that,” Whitney explained of the old model she was trying to disrupt. “You’re training two human beings to act in opposite directions of each other, and as a society you’re setting both up for failure. In effect, you set the men up to be constantly rejected. And you set the women up for abuse.” That is why Bumble needed to exist. That is why we all should care. And that is why Whitney was the perfect person to create the app. The toxic, often destructive dynamic resulting from traditional models of online courtship was exactly what had nearly destroyed her and what was making so many dating apps such an unpleasant place for many millions of women around the world. It needed to stop. The essence of this story and the revolutionary nature of what Bumble was trying to do—shifting the sexual power intowomen’shands—are even captured in the app’s name. Because Bumble wasn’t Whitney’s first choice. It was Moxie. “Like, you’ve got moxie. You’ve got courage,” she explained. “Because if you made the first move, you’d have moxie.” The problem was, they couldn’t secure rights to Moxie. Someone was squatting on the domain and had trademarked every possible version of the name. So Whitney and her colleagues had to go back to the drawing board. “We had probably a thousand words in the running,” Whitney said. “And then one morning Michelle Kennedy, who was a great mentor to me those first couple years, came in to the office . . . and happened to call her husband a bumbling idiot, and said in her really adorable British accent, ‘What about Bumble?’” Initially, Whitney hated the idea because of the negative connotations behind the word. But her business partner, Andrey, loved it. And he loved it even more when he searched all the domain registry websites and discovered that it was available—which was a minor miracle in 2014. Then a short while later, Whitney was at the home of family friends (whose daughter would end up being her third hire at Bumble) and asked the matriarch of the family what she thought of the name. “Oh, like, ‘Be the queen bee of Bumble. Find your honey on Bumble,’” this woman said. “I was like, ‘Done!’” Whitney recalled. “Hives and bees and building your hive and queen bee and the women make the first move. It was the perfect branding opportunity.” Beyond the branding, it was also a perfect encapsulation of the problems the app was going to solve for both womenand men. For women, all the queen bee and hive imagery spoke to the centrality of their role in the dating world. Without a queen bee, a hive collapses. Without bees, the entire ecosystem collapses. That is as true for beesas it is for humans, and it was about time we recognized that fact in the architecture of dating apps that were meant to bring people together but were mostly designed by men. And for men, the implications of the word “bumble” weren’t as threatening to their vulnerable egos as the word “moxie,” which implied a degree of cowardice that most men would have a hard time getting over. Like it or not, this female-centric dating app would need men for it to work. Fortunately, the biggest problem men faced in the world of dating wasn’t courage; it was social competence. Specifically, knowing when a woman was interested in them (or why) and what to say in turn. So, really, “Bumble” wasperfect. Bumble, as a name, is inherently part of the company story. But the story of its choosing is also a microcosm of the company story as a whole. It speaks to the power and importance of a good and catchy name. Especially when it comes to conveyingyour story to customers and investors and employees as you begin to grow. It’s equally important for understanding the story yourself, for staying anchored to why you do what you do and, to Ben Horowitz’s point, why your company exists. I ask virtually every founder I interview about the name of their company, and for almost all of them, the question is like a trigger that sends the story of the company’s founding practically shooting right out of them. Inevitably, it’s a story that unearths the very reasons why the company exists, and sometimes even explains how both the company and the founder have managed to succeed for as long as they have. Sara Blakely, for example, chose Spanx as the name of her shapewear company for its memorability and relatability. She knew that words with a strong Ksound were extra resonant with consumers. It was no coincidence, her thinking went, that Coca-Cola and Kodak were two of the most recognizable names in the world for most of the twentieth century. Similarly, “it’s a known trade secret among comedians,” she told me, “that the Ksound makes your audience laugh.” When she eventually landed on “Spanx” (she changed the last letter tox fromks at the last second because she’d heard made-up words were better for new products than real ones), the name felt great— not just because it had the Ksound but also because it related directly to her product, which was “all about the rear end, and making the rear end look better.” Memorability was key for Spanx because the product itself was something people were rarely going to see. Unlike a shirt or a jacket or shoes, Spanx are hidden to the public when worn, which meant the opportunity to develop broad brand recognition through visible branding on the garments themselves wasn’t really there. The namehad to be sticky. It had to cling to your brain the same way the garments form to their customers’ bodies. And “Spanx,” to use Sara’s words, “was kind of naughty and kind of funny and a little bit risqué”—all of which makes for a memorable name. Despite some initial confusion, the Airbnb guys went with their shortened name instead of Airbedandbreakfast.com because it offered a direct connection to their origin story.