It was a story whose importance they eventually embraced, but whose details they didn’t fully appreciate in the beginning. In fact, I think that may have been a big part of the reason they had to bootstrap the business for as long as they did after their first big win at the 2008 Democratic National Convention. Really knowing your story—knowing thewhy —is often the bridge between founding and funding, and it seems as if Joe Gebbia, Brian Chesky, and Nate Blecharczyk didn’t quite have the answers to many of those “why” questions when they went out to raise their first chunk of professional money. When the first twenty potential investors they met with all passed, for instance, it wasn’t that the business model wasn’t working for them, or even that the investors thought the idea behind Airbnb was weird—which they most certainly did. It was that culturally there was a deeply ingrained narrative that this new idea violated, and for which Joe and Brian had not yet crafted a counter-narrative. In short, they needed astory, and they didn’t have one. “We’ve all been taught since we were kids that strangers equal danger,” Joe explained. “No one in their right mind would invest in a service where people publicly post images of their most intimate spaces—their bedroom, their bathrooms, the kinds of rooms that they usually close when people come over—and then over the internet they’re going to invite complete strangers to sleep in their homes.” This was certainly Paul Graham’s position during their interview with the Y Combinator board for a slot in the 2009 winter class. “The very first thing out of Paul Graham’s mouth was, ‘You mean people actually use this? Well, that’s weird,’” Joe recalled during our conversation. Brian, recounting that same moment during a 2015 interview with Reid Hoffman in his Blitzscaling class at Stanford, remembered Graham then asking them a rhetorical question that only a really good story could sufficiently answer: “What’s wrong with them?” “That’s not a great way to start an interview of any kind,” Joe said. “It kind of went downhill from there.” It went downhill until Joe ran back into the room after their interview and handed Paul a box of their Obama O’s, which worked (they got their slot) because Obama O’s had a great story behind it, one that explained why Obama O’s existed and why Paul and the Y Combinator team should give Joe, Brian, and Nate a shot. Now, I want to be clear about something here, before these stories start to scare you if you don’t have your own story already figured out. Don’t worry! You’re not always going to have it perfect right out of the gate, like Whitney Wolfe did. Whitney was somewhat unique. She’d had her entire life, her entire personal narrative, deconstructed, litigated, and reconstructed in the press and on social media without her consent, and done so at light speed for weeks if not months. Bumble is the story of her reclaiming her story and building a space for other women to safely reclaim and exercise power over their stories. It’s a story that helped turn Merci into Bumble, with more than 20 million registrations to date. The Airbnb guys, on the other hand, didn’t have their story fully developed right away. Personally, I think they had the answers to their big “why” questions right from the beginning—sleeping in someone’s house on an air bed, like a sleepover, makes you feel like you’rea part ofthe city you’re traveling to, whereas staying in a national chain hotel can make you feelapart fromit—but it took them some time to get it. Once they did, however, once they began to connect more dots, and those dots began to connect to their own stories and to something deeper going on in the culture, the evolution of Airbedandbreakfast.com into Airbnb began in earnest and set them on the unicorn’s path. The stories of Bumble and Airbnb are unique to themselves, but what is true across industries and across time is thatall businesses are stories, and all stories are a process. They are a mechanism for thinking deeply about yourself, your product or service, your employees, your customers, your market, and the world. They explain each to all the others in a way that facts and figures never can. Ben Horowitz is right: knowing your story and being able to clearly articulate to the world why you exist is one of your most important challenges as an entrepreneur. Not because it helps you sell more product, or build a cooler brand, or make more money—though all those things are true. Rather, the basic story that answers the big “why” questions is the one that creates loyal customers, finds the best investors, builds an employee culture that keeps them committed to the venture, and keeps you committed and grinding away when things get really hard and you want to give up (and you will). There are a million reasons for any one of these groups to quit or to say no. Your job is to give them one of the few reasons—to tell them the story—that gets them to keep listening and to say yes. 8 Fund the Business, Part 2: Other People’s Money There’s something many entrepreneurs learn quickly as their businesses start to gain traction: with some rare exceptions (Hello, Spanx!), bootstrapping, for all its early effectiveness, will take you only so far. It doesn’t matter how hardworking or economical you are, or how well you drive early sales and then flow that revenue back into the business; there will always come a time when you will need something that you can’t do yourself and don’t have the money to pay for even if you could. That moment comes sooner for some founders than it does for others, but in every case it will require what Daymond John’s mother called “OPM” (other people’s money). In 1995, after five years of bootstrapping FUBU to varying degrees of success, Daymond had to figure out another way to fulfill their first huge orders out of the makeshift factory he’d cobbled together inside his mother’s house. “OPM doesn’t have to be other people’s money,” his mother told him as he searched for a solution. “It could be other people’s manufacturing, mind power, manpower, marketing.” Which was an amazing insight then, as it is now, though she definitely understood as well as anyone that in the end it all came down to the money. Daymond needed money to pay for materials, to pay for additional manpower and manufacturing capacity. That’s why, in the infamous classified ad she took out on his behalf, Daymond’s mother wasn’t asking for able-bodied workers or bolts of fabric. “Million dollars in orders. Need financing.” Other people’s money. Eric Ryan and Adam Lowry needed OPM almost immediately to get Method going, despite doing everything else themselves, because nearly all of their initial $90,000 personal investment was eaten up by costs related to designing, tooling, and manufacturing their distinctive plastic bottles—something they obviously couldn’t do themselves. Jen Rubio and Steph Korey needed other people’s money for Away right out of the gate, since they were trying to make a hard-shell, four-wheeled smart bag, for which they would clearly need to go to Asia to find a manufacturer that could prototype it for them. A manufacturer that, like most, preferred to be paid with money, which in 2014 Jen and Steph did not have. Money is nevernot a complicated subject. On the one hand, it’s one of those things we’re not supposed to talk about in mixed company. How much you have, how much you make, how much you spend—all of that is off-limits to ask about and usually rude to bring up. Yet on the other hand, we’re completely obsessed with it, never more so than in the startup world, where how much early-stage money a company has raised gets thrown out there as though fundraising is a perpetual game of one-upmanship in which run rate has replaced “hello” as a greeting, and burn rate is often easier to find online than a company’s physical address. I’m exaggerating (sort of), but my point is that money is a constant—and constantly changing—consideration in the early days of a business, and because startups have become such a fixture in our culture, the money that flows into them has become an increasing object of our focus as well. We even make popular TV shows about it— Shark Tankand The Profitforemost among them—and those shows have done a lot to both demystify the topic of money and to confuse it. The demystification comes with a clearer understanding of what that money will cost. Twenty-five years ago, Daymond John and his mother really had no idea how much financing might set themback. But today, even the most casual observer of the entrepreneurial world understands that forx dollars, you give upy percent of your company and/orz percent royalty. Sometimes that cost is steep. Sometimes it’s more favorable. It all depends on the quality of the idea and the story behind it—and on the intense competition to invest that those two factors cultivate. The confusion arises from the sense these shows create that money is somehow easy to get and that when you have an idea, the first thing you should do is find an angel investor or a venture capital firm and ask for a million dollars. This feeds the notion that there is all this money just sitting out there, waiting to be plucked off the street corner, off TV, off wealthy investors in Midtown Manhattan or out on Sand Hill Road, by anyone with a good idea. And there is some truth to that. There has never been a better time to seek out other people’s money. (Investors were sitting on $3.4 trillion in cash at the end of 2019.) But just because it’s there doesn’t necessarily mean that you can pursue it, or that you should—especially early on, and particularly the large sums of professional money doled out by investors like those on Shark Tankand The Profit. (I’ll talk about professional money in much greater detail in chapter 15.) At this stage of your business, you might actually want to hold off on taking their money for a while. If you don’t need to give up 5, 10, 20 percent of your company before you are even sure what it’s going to look like, to people who will never care about it as much as you and your partners do, then you shouldn’t take this money. The question then becomes: Where else can you go for OPM? This is where friends and family come into play. Soliciting money from friends and family is sort of like an unofficial step between bootstrapping and scaling up with professional fundraising.