It bridges the gap when doing everything yourself can only get you from zero to point-five (to twist a phrase from PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel) and you need money to take you the rest of the way to one. This is precisely what the Method and Away founders did to solve their early money problems. “We were getting five grand here, ten grand there, from every person that would give us money,” Adam Lowry said of the mix of loans and early investment he and Eric Ryan received from friends and family for Method. “All told, it was maybe a couple hundred thousand dollars we got that way before we were able to raise our first professional money.” They ran the business on that for two years. “It was literally five- and ten-thousand-dollar checks,” Jen Rubio said of Away. She and Steph Korey raised about $150,000 that way, all of it going into the prototyping process for their first bag. They are not the only ones who have joined the friends-and-family financing plan, which has a long entrepreneurial history. In 1962, Gordon and Carole Segal, the founders of Crate & Barrel, decided to open a European housewares store that bought direct from the factory and sold at a normal retail markup, because they’d seen the model work brilliantly in all the wonderful stores they’d visited during their honeymoon in the Caribbean the summer before, and there was nothing like it in the United States. “We had about $10,000 from wedding gifts, and we figured we really needed $20,000,” Gordon said. “And there was no such thing as venture capital in those days. There was no such thing as startups. So I spent six months running around to everyone I knew who had any wealth and offering them half the business for $10,000.” (Can you believe that? In 1962, you could have had 50 percent of Crate & Barrel for ten grand!) Gordon had no takers, however, except his father, who lent them $7,000 to help open the store out of a dumbwaiter factory in the Old Town neighborhood of Chicago. “It was probably all the money he had,” Gordon said of his father’s loan. And it was all the money Gordon would get . . . or need. Today, Crate & Barrel has 7,500 employees across more than 120 locations with revenue in excess of $1.5 billion. In 1979, Ron Shaich, the future CEO of Panera Bread, left his job as regional manager for the Original Cookie Company, a shopping mall–based cookie conglomerate, to start an “urban cookie store” in Boston, where he’d gone to school, that would take advantage of all the foot traffic that downtown city streets get on a daily basis. Ron had $25,000 to get started, but that wasn’t nearly enough to open a storefront in a major American city. “I had no credibility. I had no real money. I had no balance sheet to sign a lease,” he said. “So Iwent to my dad and said, ‘I want my inheritance, whatever it’s going to be. I want the opportunity to use it.’” And his father agreed. He gave Ron $75,000, and with that combined $100,000 Ron opened a 400-square-foot cookie store. He called it the Cookie Jar, and within two years he had folded it into the bakery and café chain we know today as Au Bon Pain. In 1993, Steve Ells took money from his father, as part loan and part investment, to open the first Chipotle in an old, dilapidated Dolly Madison ice cream store near the University of Denver campus. “It was 850 square feet, the rent was $800 a month, and it was in terrible condition and . . . needed a lot of work,” Steve recalled. “So I convinced my father to lend me the money, which ended up being $80,000.” A year laterand 1,300 miles to the northwest, in Seattle, Jeff Bezos went to sixty different people in his personal network asking for $50,000 from each of them to help him start an online bookstore. Nearly two-thirds of them said no, primarily because they didn’t get the idea behind what would become Amazon, the largest online retailer the world has ever known. But among those who said yes were Bezos’s parents and his brother and sister. They may not have fully understood Jeff’s idea either, but they knew their son and brother, and that was all they needed to know. (For their faith, each has been made a billionaire. Not a bad return on a $50,000 bet.) * This is one of the great virtues of taking OPM from friends and family instead of racing straight to private equity or venture capital. Not only is it generally cheaper, but as Eric Ryan put it, it’s coming from “people who believe in you more than they necessarily believe in your idea,” which makes it easier to change your mind midstream and to iterate your way to the product or service that will eventually become the business, because the money is tied to a bet onyou, not on a specific formulation of your idea. Ron Shaich’s dad thought it was an awful idea for Ron to partner with, and acquire a controlling interest in, Au Bon Pain, from whom Ron had been buying croissantsand other baked goods so that the Cookie Jar could have something to sell in the morning (nobody bought cookies until lunchtime). “If this is worth having, you’re not going to get any of it. If you get any of it, it’s not going to be worth having,” he said. But Ron could see Au Bon Pain’s potential, despite how poorly it was being run, and he was confident he knew how to fix their problems, so his father didn’t stand in the way, because the $75,000 he’d lent Ron was an investment in hisson, not in his cookies. Now, it isn’t lost on me that we’ve just discussed some big sums of money here. Ten $1,000 checks. Seven thousand dollars in cash. A $75,000 advance on an inheritance. Eighty thousand dollars in rolling investment. It is safe to say that most or at least a lot of us don’t know many (or any) people with that kind of money to lend or invest. Indeed, access to other people’s money—especially big money—is not the same for everyone and is often connected to individual or societal privilege, which can be anything ranging from family wealth to geographic location to race to business school ties to professional connections. Ron Shaich went to Harvard Business School. Gordon Segal’s family had a retail background, so he had the benefit of their experience as well as a little bit of their money. Adam Lowry and Eric Ryan grew up in one of the most affluent suburbs in America. Jeff Bezos’s grandfather was a prominent figure in the early years of the US Atomic Energy Commission and the agency that would eventually become DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency). He had helped to cultivate Bezos’s interest in technology from a young age during Jeff’s summer visits to the family ranch about ninety minutes south of San Antonio, Texas. That is what privilege can look like. Another way to say it is that some people have distinct, tangible advantages that make it easier for them to pull together enough OPM to get their businesses on solid footing and pointed in the right direction. Recognition of this fact, especially for the entrepreneurs who enjoyed some of those advantages going in, is why I always ask my podcast guests how much they attribute their success to both luck and hard work (a topic we will revisit in chapter 26). Acknowledging privilege and recognizing advantage are essential to understanding the nature of success—both yours and others’. That does not mean privilege should define or predetermine success, any more than lack of privilege should preclude it. While not everyone has the same privilege of circumstance, everyone has intangible advantages of one kind or another that they can leverage in pursuit of success. Personality is an advantage. Will is an advantage. Likability, unflappability, resilience, having a good memory—those are all advantages that anyone who possesses them can use much the way anyone who possesses privilege uses theirs. But where does that really leave those of us who may not be lucky enough to have a parent who can write a $10,000 check compared with those whose parents casually carry around $10,000 in cash? It doesn’t leave us in the same place, but it does put us in the same race on the same track. Although our access to money differs, the process for securing it is the same, no matter who we are, where we live, how we grew up, or what we’re trying to build. In every case, a conversation takes place in which a founder has to describe what they’re trying to do and then ask another person for some amount of money—in the form of investment, loan, gift, whatever—to help them get there. Here’s where those early fundraising stories from the privileged and the less-than-privileged start to sound surprisingly alike. To a person, all of these entrepreneurs will tell you that fundraising is brutally hard at every level. It taxes your time, your energy, your ego, and sometimes your relationships. You will have hundreds of conversations. You will have to tell your story hundreds of times and answer ten times as many questions, a lot of them the same, some of them incredibly frustrating, especially from people who you think are supposed to support you or whom you have always called a friend. You are going to need a thick skin, like the heat shield on a space shuttle trying to punch through the incredible resistance of the surrounding atmosphere and not break apart. This is true whether you are blue-blooded or blue-collar, just as it is true that this process starts the same way for everyone—with a conversation, with the people you know. First a parent, then an uncle, then a family friend, then a mentor, then maybe a kid you went to high school with who also started their own business, and on and on from there, until you’ve exhausted your total personal network and have, by then hopefully, raised all the money you need. I think about it like a series of concentric circles. You start with the circle of people who are closest to you—the people whose names you don’t have to dig to the bottom of your contacts to find, because they’re right there in your text messages and the call log on your phone. Maybe you start with a best friend and ask to borrow a few hundred dollars. Does your friend know someone—a relative, possibly—whom you can call for a little more, maybe $500?