Does that relative know of someone interested in helping out a startup like yours? In this way, each person in your inner circle is both a potential resource in and of themselves and also a launching pad to someone in the circle one step removed. In theory, you can move like this out through the concentric circles almost infinitely. In fact, that’s kind of how crowdfunding sites like Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and GoFundMe tend to work. They’re word-of-mouth mechanisms designed to help innovators and creators just like you get started, by reaching the fifth, sixth, or seventh circle of people whom you could never reasonably expect to know or meet, but whose capital you can use to actually produce the thing you are trying to sell. Crowdfunding sites are also great for people whose inner circles are a little thin without a lot of people to talk to, or alternatively are quite robust but without a lot of available cash to contribute. Asking people for money is always a difficult, and sometimes uncomfortable, thing to do. Having to do it a hundred times at $20 to $50 a pop isn’t just tedious, it’s impractical. When are you going to find the time to run the actual business? Crowdfunding consolidates all those small asks into a single conversation broadcast through the loudspeaker we call the internet. In fact, Kickstarter is how Tim Brown first launched Allbirds and how several other companies, such as Oculus, Brooklinen, and the card game Exploding Kittens, initially raised their money. The lesson here is that despite the sometimes daunting advantages that privilege can confer, this process for raising early money really is available to anyone. Everyone exists at the center of their own set of concentric circles. The built-in advantages of privilege do not change their shape, they only reduce the number of outer circles one might need to explore to reach one’s fundraising goals. And that, thankfully, is where we start to find the limits of privilege when it comes to OPM and entrepreneurship—by which I mean, once someone has raised money, even if it was easy for them and there is more where that came from, they still have to do something with it. I can’t point to a single example of an entrepreneur I’ve profiled who raised a bunch of friends-and-family money early on and then merely sat back, resting on their privilege, to watch their business grow organically with no effort. In fact, just the opposite tends to be the case. Once you’ve convinced people in your personal network to part withtheir money in support ofyour idea, that’s when the pressure to succeed really begins. Understandably, some entrepreneurs don’t like that kind of pressure, which is part of what can make the facelessness of crowdfunding and the formality of professional money more appealing pathways. Others use the pressure as fuel. “I found it so motivating,” Eric Ryan told me, “because it’s one thing to lose our own money or fail, but when you’re taking money from people you really care about, you don’t want to let them down. It’s the best motivation to ensure that no matter how hard things get, you’re going to find a path forward.” I also think the pressure of friends-and-family money, especially if you had to wring out that OPM from deep within your concentric circles of contacts, has a way of revealing advantages that maybe you didn’t know you had or never thought you could pursue, but that will help you with all the other areas of your business going forward. Because when raising early money is more difficult for you than it might be for someone with the privilege of ready access to capital, you are forced to get better, tobe better, at everything else. You have to hone your idea until it’s razor-sharp. You have to become a much better storyteller, because the farther out into the concentric circles of your network you have to go, where the connections are more tenuous, the less time you have to present your story. You have to get to know your community so much better that, if you do it right, you don’t just find a customer base, you also find a home. Those are advantages that, if you didn’t already have them, you can build for yourself as an entrepreneur regardless of privilege. They may be born of the necessity to raise OPM, but they are also tools for making you better. And if you can get better, if you can raise money from friends and family early on to help take your idea from zero to one, all without sacrificing too much of your equity or your vision for the business, then you will be well positioned for success and perfectly situated to grow for a long time to come. 9 Iterate, Iterate, Iterate Take a look around you right now. At the seat you’re sitting on. The shirt you’re wearing. The light bulbs illuminating the space you’re in. The phone in your pocket. Maybe the earbuds in your ears. Even the cover of this book you’re reading or listening to. If these items have anything in common, it is that none of them looked like they do now when they were first conceived by the people who invented or designed them. And that’s because a lot happens between conception and first production for nearly every idea that gets turned into a business. Shape changes. Materials change. Offerings change. Names change. Process changes. Construction methods change. Look and feel and taste change. As I type these words, I’m wearing a pair of Allbirds wool runner shoes. They’re super comfortable. When Tim Brown first conceived of the idea for a simple, clean, logo-less sneaker in 2009, the Merino wool fabric that has been the signature element of Allbirds since their debut in 2014 wasn’t even in the picture. The first shoes he produced, in fact, weren’t even called Allbirds; they were called TBs, and they were made from canvas and pieces of leather that he shipped from New Zealand to a factory in Indonesia, which produced two versions—high-top and low-top. Fit and comfort weren’treally part of the brand vision either. “It wasn’t about comfort at that time,” Tim said. “It was a design observation about a category that I thought was super complicated and overcrowded and over-logoed.” Then Tim got a whiff, quite literally, of what went into making shoes, especially with leather, and his vision for his shoes began to change. “When I walked into a tannery for the first time,” Tim said, “it was an eye-opening experience. I started to understand where these materials were coming from. And what I realized was that the materials that shoes were made out of were not very nice. And I think that opened up the idea of exploring different materials.” One of those materials was wool. “I remember reading a magazine one day about the wool industry in New Zealand,” Tim said. “And I was like, ‘Gosh, why is wool not used in shoes?’ And, ‘What if we could do that? That would be hugely interesting.’” Interesting because while the clean design of his shoe, and the story behind it, had resonated with customers enough to sell out virtually the entire 1,000-pair run of TBs at the pop-up shop in Wellington where Tim first sold them publicly (he sold his very first pairs to his teammates on the New Zealand national soccer team), his shoe really wasn’t differentiated enough for his taste. “It needed something more both for me and for the product,” he said. So Tim applied to the New Zealand government for a grant from the Wool Research Board—which I swear is an actual thing—to develop a wool textile for the upper part of a shoe. To most people outside of New Zealand, particularly in the United States, this idea would have sounded kind of nuts. Wool is thick and heavy and often scratchy. It’s for sweaters and blankets and slippers, maybe, not shoes. But New Zealand’s Merino sheep produce an incredibly fine, soft wool with “miraculous properties,” as Tim described them. Merino wool wicks away moisture, regulates body temperature, and best of all, as anyone who has ever been caught in the rain wearing a wool sweater can attest, it doesn’t smell. Of course, Tim was not the first person to figure out that Merino wool might be good for clothing. Merino sheep have been around since the twelfth century; in Australia and New Zealand, they’vebeen a staple since the late 1700s. And in recent years, a handful of New Zealand–based clothing manufacturers had begun to develop Merino-blended fabrics, sometimes known as “smart wool,” that were becoming increasingly popular. * But in 2009–2010, a similar Merino-based textile did not exist for shoes. “The problem,” Tim believed, was that outside of apparel, “wool was being marketed very, very poorly, despite the enormous innovation opportunity.” This was the case that Tim made to the Wool Research Board and how he was able to secure the research and development grant that ultimately produced the fabric that would go into the first Allbirds shoes in 2014 and into every other pair since. There is a name for the creative process that Tim and his co-founder, Joey Zwillinger, went through, from canvas-and-leather TBs in 2009 to Allbirds Merino wool runners in 2014. It’s callediteration —the incremental evolution of a product or service. It is a phenomenon that is natural to innovation and foundational to the development of products as they come to market and vie for the attention of discerning (and often distracted) consumers. Typically, there are two phases to the iterative process prior to launch. The first involves tinkering with your idea until it works and you, as its creator, are satisfied with what you have. The second entails exposing the working idea to the public and tweaking the product based on their feedback until it catches on—either with a buyer, a major investor, a retail partner, or a critical mass of your customers. What makes the Allbirds story somewhat unique is that much of its evolution occurred in that first phase, before the shoes were ever exposed to consumers in any meaningful way. Many of the choices that Tim made—including, but not limited to, his experimentation with Merino wool—were driven by his own goals and preferences. None of his teammates on the New Zealand national team, for example, had complained to him about the fit or the function or the look of those first canvas-and-leather TBs. But Tim didn’t like what wentinto making them, and he wasn’t all that excited about their sales potential. So he made the switch to wool and then went through 200-plus versions until he found something he loved. That’s really what Tim was getting at when he said the shoes needed something more “both for me and for the product.” If all he was doing was making shoes the same toxic way they’d always been made, just without the swoosh or the stripes or the star on the side, how new of an idea was it, really?