And how long before that logo-less story ran out of legs? More specifically, from Tim’s perspective, what would be the point? The goal, when you’re trying to break into an overcrowded market like Tim was, isn’t to make Pumas without the tiger; it’s to make something no one has ever seen before. Tim and Joey understood that—about the market and about themselves—nearly from the beginning, and they made the lion’s share of tweaks to their Allbirds shoe before nearly anyone else had a chance to see it and tell them to do things differently. As Tim made clear in our conversation, it’s important to spend enough time in this first phase to really get comfortable with your product and your story and really get to know the business you’re trying to build. Tim, arguably, spent five productive years there. Whitney Wolfe, in contrast, took less than a year to get the first version of Bumble out into the world and onto people’s phones, in part because she already knew the business from her time at Tinder and she’d lived every moment of the Bumble story from the day she left Tinder for good. The exact amount of time you spend in the first phase of development isn’t as important as making sure you don’t get stuck there for too long. Every idea, no matter how great, has a shelf life. If you don’t get it off that shelf and out into the world in time, no amount of feedback you get during the second phase of the iterative process can overcome a lack of interest or mitigate first-mover advantage if someone beats you to the punch. Moving to phase two can be tough for people who don’t handle criticism well, or who are dogged by that familiar yet unattainable form of perfectionism that has trapped the next great American novel on the desks or hard drives of countless aspiring writers sinceforever. Like asking friends and family for money, exposing your idea and all your hard work to feedback can be very uncomfortable, which can make the first phase of internal development feel like a safe space out of which you would rather not poke your head until you’re absolutely sure. Except “absolutely sure” doesn’t exist. I would love to tell you a story about an entrepreneur who succeeded in spite of the paralysis of their perfectionism—but I don’t have one, because such people generally don’t create companies. The creators and innovators whom I meet, if they do struggle with criticism and perfectionism, also understand the importance of allowing their product to be judged by the marketplace, and the opportunity that users’ feedback presents to make the product better as a result. They know that they need anabundance of feedback to dial in their product. They actively seek it out, in fact. Because while they know what they want to do, and they know why and how they want to do it, they also know that they have no idea if anyone will actually like what they’re making. And that’s always essential to keep in mind. Nowhere is this aspect of the iterative process more evident than in the energy bar business. Somehow, over the years, I’ve managed to interview the creators of three of them—Gary Erickson of Clif Bar, Peter Rahal of RXBar, and Lara Merriken of Lärabar. They are unique characters with similar entrepreneurial journeys, and I think what attracted me to their stories, as someone who loves to cook for other people myself, is just how fraught it can be to come up with a new recipe and then try to get it exactly right so people won’t just eat it, but they’ll love it, too. You think asking your friends and family for money is hard? Try asking them to taste your food and give you their honest opinion. Try getting them to tell you if it’s good, if they like it, whatthey like about it, if there’s anything they’d change, if there’s anything they’d like more or less of. I can tell you from experience that this can feel like an impossible task—one made even more difficult by the need to discern whose feedback to consider and whose to ignore, and then how to apply that feedback in such a way that it doesn’t send you back to the drawing board every time. It is a difficult but necessary process that took Gary Erickson six months, Peter Rahal seven months, and Lara Merriken threeyears to complete. Each product started with an idea, of course. Gary, an avid cyclist living in Berkeley, California, got his in 1990 on a long, hilly ride through the Bay Area with a good friend. They were planning to do 125 miles, so each of them brought a banana and six PowerBars (also from Berkeley, coincidentally) for fuel. At the time, PowerBars were the only readily available energy bars on the market, so every cyclist ate them—most, grudgingly. “When we were at the top of Mount Hamilton, I’d eaten five of those PowerBars, and I looked at the sixth one and I said, ‘No way. I can’t do one more. I would rather starve than eat another one of these,’” Gary recalled. Back then, the bars had a consistency somewhere between LaffyTaffy and Now and Laters, without any of the flavor benefits of candied sugar. “The bitter pill,” he called them. “I turned to my friend and said, ‘I can make a better energy bar than that.’” A decade later, Lara, a social worker at the time, got the idea for her bar from the bottom of a trail mix bag at the top of a mountain outside Boulder, Colorado, on Memorial Day weekend in 2000. “I was just kind of eating trail mix and thinking of food and raw foods and all of a sudden this light bulb goes off for me,” she said. “ ‘Why hasn’t somebody made something made of fruit, nuts, and spices—just pure, simple, real foods—but it’s portable and convenient and it tastes indulgent like you shouldn’t be eating it?’” In 2012, Peter Rahal came up with the idea for RXBar when, as a hard-core CrossFit enthusiast and an adherent of the Paleo diet (like so many other CrossFitters), he recognized that there was no energy or protein bar out there that met the strictures of that diet. “And the question was, why?” Peter said. “There’s this group of people that all do the same activity, that subscribe to the same nutrition values, and yet these gyms are selling water, they’re selling T-shirts, but no good-tasting bar that fulfilled the Paleo criteria.” Not unlike Tim Brown’s sneakers, Peter’s idea was to fill that gap in the otherwise crowded energy bar space with something clean and simple. Interestingly, conceiving of and getting down the rough outlinesof the bars’ initial recipes—this is what the first phase of their iterative process entailed—didn’t take any of these creators all that long. Not twenty-four hours after Gary got home from his long ride, for instance, he called his mom, who’d helped him with recipes for the small bakery (Kali’s, named after his grandma) he currently owned, and enlisted her help with his energy bar idea. Her response was, “What’s an energy bar?” His answer was basically the foundation of the Clif Bar recipe. “It is kind of like that oatmeal–raisin–chocolate chip cookie you make,” he began, “but we can’t use butter, we can’t use sugar, we can’t use oil.” It was just going to be whole oats, real fruit, and a sweetener made from rice, all of which he would form into a rectangular shape, because “it was not going to be a cookie—it had to be like a bar.” Lara didn’t wait a full day to start tinkering either. “I ran down the mountain,” she said, “I got out a notebook, and I started writing down ideas. And then when we got back to Denver, I would get ideas from pies and cookies and cakes. And I’d think, ‘Okay, how do I take cherry pie and make basically a raw, unprocessed food just in my Cuisinart and make it taste like cherry pie or apple pie or banana bread?’” The recipes came fairly quickly for her after that. For Peter and his partner, Jared Smith, the initial phase was more of a process. “There was not this moment where it’s like, ‘Oh, we’re going to do it and commit,’” Peter said. “First, we’re like, ‘Let’s go to Whole Foods and tour the market. Let’s start playing around with ingredients.’ We just kind of did some preliminary market research and started learning.” Still, like Gary and Lara, they went into their tour with a clear vision for the product—a minimal-ingredient, Paleo-friendly protein bar. “And the general philosophy around the product was that for whatever part of the formula, we wanted to make sure the ingredients were the best possible.” It is precisely at this point in the iterative process that any one of these founders could have frozen in fear of negative feedback and let their idea get stuck in what Hollywood calls development hell. In retrospect, it would be hard to blame any of them if that had happened, because they each faced resistance to their idea from the people closest to them. Gary’s mom didn’t even know what an energy barwas. Lara’s parents, when she called them to share her idea, thought she was completely out of her mind. “They just thought, ‘We’ve sent her through private high school, USC, she’s graduated, she’s thirty-two years old . . . Oh my God, what’s going on here?’” Lots of people told Peter his Paleo protein bar was a bad idea, though not necessarily with their words. “I’d be very excited about it, and the look on their face was like, That’s a dumb idea, ” Peter said, though he understood their skepticism . . . to a degree. “I mean, the market didn’t need another protein bar, that’s for sure. But we were just focused, and when we got some feedback, if it was negative, we were like, ‘We’re just going to do it anyway.’” By the end of the summer of 2012, Peter was inundating the people at his CrossFit gym with samples. He’d moved into the second iterative phase of the development process. “We’d have logs of this RXBar dough, packed in Tupperware, and we would just get feedback,” Peter remembered of those early days—he at his CrossFit gym, Jared at the gym he belonged to. “You just ask a ton of questions: ‘Do you like this?’ ‘Do you not like this?’ ‘What would you like?’ ‘Would you pay for this?’ We collected tons of data.” All of that data went into refining the recipe for their first flavor, coconut chocolate, until mid-March 2013, when they made legitimate sales and collected real revenue for the first time.