I mention all this because being really good at going through the side door is an amazing, and sometimes necessary, skill. But it can also be a double-edged sword. It can get you off the ground and set you up for fantastic growth, but it can get you in a lot of trouble, too. Indeed, that tension is present whenever you search for the Raikes-Buffett emails online. They are often held up by aspiring entrepreneurs as brilliant examples of business acumen and strategic analysis, but what many of those people don’t realize is that the entire reason they are able to read those emails at all—most often in the form of pdf versions of a printed-out email chain—is because they are part of the public record, submitted as deposition and trial exhibits in a class action antitrust lawsuit brought against Microsoft in the early 2000s by consumers in multiple American states. This email exchange became a key part of the plaintiffs’ opening statement in that suit, which was settled not long afterward for more than a billion dollars. All of which is to say, Go through the side door, please! Do everything within your power to find your way into the market where you are likely to have the most success. Just make sure when you get inside and set up shop, you avoid becoming what you fought so hard against in turning your dream of starting your own business into a reality. 11 It’s All About Location It is a maxim that has defined an industry. Location, location, location. In real estate, it is the single most important factor in determining the value of a home. A beautiful four-bedroom house on the top of a hill overlooking San Francisco Bay might run you into the multiple millions of dollars. But take that same house, with the same amount of land, and move it to the bottom of that hill, next to a fire station, and you’re looking at a piece of property worth only half as much, if you’re lucky. This kind of raw “apples to apples” comparison is not really what real estate titans are referring to, though, when they talk about the value of a property and the primacy of location. What they are talking about is thepower of locationin the context of the subjective needs and preferences of individual buyers. For parents with young children, a mediocre three-bedroom house in a great school district is better, or more valuable to them, than a great four-bedroom house in a mediocre school district. For retirees looking for their dream beach house, a small place on the sand is better than a large place three blocks away from it. The same exact phenomenon exists for young businesses trying to find a foothold. Depending on a company’s needs, certain locations are simply better than others. For example, if you are making surfboards, maybe Vermont isn’t the best place for you. But if you are making snowboards, like the late Jake Burton Carpenter, founder of Burton Snowboards, started to do in 1977, maybe Vermont is just the right place. It’s certainly better than the apartment on East Eighty-Sixth Street in Manhattan where Jake was living when he made the first prototypes and realized he needed to move in order for the business to blossom and grow. Interestingly, Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield left New York for Vermont that very same year to start Ben & Jerry’s, but for another reason. While they were taking a correspondence course in ice cream making, someone opened an ice cream shop near their first proposed location in Sarasota Springs, New York. That was too much competition for Ben and Jerry’s tastes, so they moved to Burlington, Vermont. As the founder of a new company, it’syour job to figure out where you belong for your business to reach its full potential. Is there some specific place you should be? Like Jake Carpenter in Vermont? Are you in a crowded space you need to get out of, like Ben and Jerry in Sarasota Springs? Or are you just fine right where you are? Like Tobi Lütke, the founder of Shopify, in Ottawa, Ontario. Now, when you say those words out loud, they don’t sound right, do they? Ottawa? Home to what would become one of the largest e-commerce platforms in the world? Shouldn’t a company like Shopify be in, say, Silicon Valley? Well, as a matter of fact, that’s exactly what every venture capital firm thought when Tobi went out to Sand Hill Road to raise money in 2008. “No one could possibly be doing anything interesting outside of the valley” was how Tobi described their thinking at the time. And if it wasn’t outright condescension he faced, it was general skepticism about the idea of an e-commerce software solution that helped people start online retail businesses. They’d say, “ ‘Didn’t we figure out e-commerce in the nineties?’ Or ‘Did we not figure out that it didn’t work in the early 2000s?’” Tobi recalled. He fully understood their hesitancy. After all, “e-commerce and the dot-com emergence and crash was sort of inextricably linked,” and here he was riding intotown, * trying to raise money, right as another big bubble had just burst. What those skeptical venture capitalists couldn’t see was that their assessment of e-commerce in the early 2000s was only partially right. It hadn’t worked . . . yet. “There were more online stores in 2001 than there were people who’d ever used a credit card online,” Tobi explained. “It’s not that people were wrong, just much too early.” And so was the technology. The e-commerce experience was severely lacking, both from the shopper side and the merchant side. That was the problem Tobi was trying to solve when he set out to create what would become Shopify, but which began as storefront software for an online snowboard business called Snowdevil that he’d started in 2004 out of his in-laws’ garage. At the time, e-commerce sites were basically just translations of old retail product catalogs into the digital space. There was a static grid of products that might go for dozens of pages. Search functionality was very rudimentary, if it worked at all. Image quality was poor. And it was really hard to pay for things. “What was interesting to us was not to create this sort of anonymous grid of products,” Tobi said. “It was to tell stories—something that wrapped good storytelling around products that people are excited about—and that was easy, especially the credit card part.” After four years of refinement and then a shift away from snowboards to software as its core business, the result was Shopify. And to Tobi’s surprise, despite their initial skepticism, a number of VC firms wrote term sheets for investment. Some were even the kinds of offers that entrepreneurs today dream about—a benchmark offer from Sequoia Capital, to name just one. But every deal came with a catch. “All the offers were conditional on moving the company to Silicon Valley,” Tobi said. This was a nonstarter for reasons wholly unrelated to the business. “I am fundamentally suspicious of orthodoxy,” Tobi said. Aclaim evidenced in his decision a few years earlier to build e-commerce software from scratch, and then to abandon Java for Ruby on Rails as the programming language with which to build it. “I don’t react very well to people telling me what to do,” Tobi said of the various VC offers he’d received, “so I pretty much tried to figure out a way to not have to move.” That probably sounds like an epic level of stubbornness, considering that for about six months out of the year, Ottawa is not what one might call a fun, easy place to live. It gets very dark and very cold, which makes recruiting key talent to move there more difficult than to a place like Silicon Valley, where the average daily high temperature is a full thirty degrees warmer during those six, hard Canadian fall and winter months. But as far as Tobi was concerned, Ottawa had a lot of stuff going for it. He’d moved to Canada’s capital city from Germany a few years earlier to live with his girlfriend (now wife), Fiona McKean, who had aspirations to become a Canadian diplomat. They lived with her parents rent-free for a full decade (even after success!). He’d already found $400,000 in funding from an angel investor named John Phillips, whose parents happened to live in Ottawa. And beyond that, Ottawa was a place, Tobi believed, that punched far above its weight in intellectual talent. It was, after all, where the best and the brightest in Canada came to devote their talents to government service. Just because most of the VCs he met with couldn’t find Ottawa on a map did not mean it was some kind of backwater. Tobi had another advantage when it came to resisting the demands of his VC suitors: he didn’t actually want their money. He wasn’t all that interested in scaling Shopify into the kind of billion-dollar back-end behemoth it eventually became. So while VC money would have been nice, at that moment in 2008 it wasn’t necessary. “I think businesses are there to, at some point, make money, but also to be sustainable,” he said. “That’s what I was hoping for. My intention was to build the world’s best twenty-person company.” In fact, the only reason he was talking to any of these VCs at all was because even that number—twenty people—was too big for one of his co-founders, Scott Lake. Up to that point, Scott had been performing many of the functions of a startup CEO and had decided to leave the company to do other things. “Funnily enough, he ended up realizing he’s a small-company guy much more so than I,” Tobi said, “and I think he also realized that where the software industry was going, most of the people who were CEOs were actually highly technical members of the founding teams.” Scott was not technical. He was the business guy, the sales guy, the relationship guy. And Tobi, well, he would always be a programmer first. “I wanted to play with technology. That was what I was good at. That was my identity,” he said. In retrospect, this made him oddly suited to run a software company, but in 2008 he had very little interest in doing so, which is the thing that eventually brought him to Silicon Valley. He’d heard from someone that if you got a really good VC to invest in your company, they usually had a big network of people they could pull from to help you find the right CEO, if you needed one. Tobi definitely felt like he needed a good CEO, and he met with several worthy candidates over late-night drinks on that trip, thanks to introductions from a few of the VCs who would eventually write term sheets for Shopify.