But none of the candidates (or the term sheets) were great enough to convince Tobi to move the company from the snowy expanse of eastern Canada to the sunny shores of the western United States. It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual, but I think that Tobi’s recalcitrance probably helped Shopify dodge a bullet in the relocation clauses of those initial VC offers. Ottawa gave Tobi the distance he needed to be as creative and unconventional as he wanted to be in building the software that now powers more than 820,000 merchants, who have sold more than $100 billion worth of goods and services in 175 different countries. Had Tobi taken one of those offers in 2008 and agreed to move, it is very likely that the institutional memory of Silicon Valley—which still suffered some PTSD resulting from the role of e-commerce in the dot-com crash—would have rounded off many of the edges on Tobi’s plans and may have bent his software into the shape of something less dynamic. This is not to speak ill of moving your business, or of moving it to Silicon Valley; it’s just the nature of trying to remake something in an entirely new way. Therewill always be resistance, and the gravity of money and memory will always pull you toward the familiar. And so you must resist in turn if where you are headed is better, in your estimation, than where they want you to go. Sometimes, though, you need to give in to the gravity and let it pull you in a new direction, to a different place, toward what Reid Hoffman calls “the heat of the action.” For Katrina Lake, unlike for Tobi Lütke, that placewas Silicon Valley. The move happened for her in early 2011. For the two years prior, she’d been living in Boston and attending Harvard Business School, where she was about to graduate not just with an MBA but with an actual business. She originally called it Rack Habit, but fairly soon after founding the business Katrina changed the name to Stitch Fix because, as she told me, “it was very clear Nordstrom would have sued us for it.” * The idea for Stitch Fix was fairly straightforward. For $20 per month, you would get a box shipped to your home filled with five clothing items that had been hand-selected for you by a stylist based on a personalized survey that you filled out when you signed up. If you bought all five items, you would get a discount, and the $20 “styling fee” would count toward your total. If you didn’t want any of the items, you would just send the box back, and all you would be out was the $20 monthly fee. The idea came to Katrina when she realized that “more and more dollars were moving to e-commerce stores” at the same time a “massive depersonalization of retail was happening,” and that if there was one category where that combination of factors would not fly, it was apparel. Clothing purchases are “deeply personal and deeply nuanced and super emotional,” she said. Her goal, then, was to re-personalize online clothes shopping—to “deliver a personal experience in apparel and [to] use data and technology to make it scalable and to make it better.” As she got Stitch Fix up and running, Katrina knew that Boston was not the place for this kind of business. It was an apparel company, so obviously it needed to be in New York. That was the center of fashion in America. That was where the gravity of her original idea was pulling her. But as the spring of 2011 approached, her perspective changed. “I realized, ‘There’s no reason we have to be in New York. Lots of brands are in LA, lots of companies are in the Bay Area,’” she explained of her thinking. She also realized that maybe Stitch Fix wasn’t actually an apparel company after all, but a technology company. While it was true that Stitch Fix would be selling clothes, it was the technology that was going to make the business work, and there was only one place in the country in 2011 that had the kind of concentration of technology talent Katrina would need to scale up as quickly as she wanted. That place was Silicon Valley. Almost overnight, the gravity shifted. “The talent is here,” she said. “We have many, many data scientists and many, many engineers, and if we wanted to fulfill the vision of using technology to deliver our service, it would have been very difficult to do it elsewhere.” A couple years later, Dropbox CEO Drew Houston, who like Katrina had come up with his idea and founded his company while in school in Boston and then moved to San Francisco to launch it in earnest, gave the commencement address to the graduating class at his alma mater, MIT. Drew spoke directly to this idea of relocating for your business, echoing the advice Reid Hoffman gives to the entrepreneurs he mentors. “Where you live matters,” Drew said in his address. “Whatever you’re doing, there’s usually only one place where the top people go. You should go there. Don’t settle for anything else . . . If the real action is happening somewhere else, move.” It’s not unreasonable to imagine that hundreds of thousands of people have moved to Silicon Valley from all over the world to start businesses since the turn of the millennia for this very reason. Apoorva Mehta, the founder of Instacart, did so after quitting his job at Amazon in 2010. “As I read more and more about entrepreneurship, I started to find all these prolific entrepreneurs and investors had something in common, which was that all of them were in Silicon Valley,” he said. “And to me it was like, if you’re playing soccer, it’s probably a good idea for you to be in Brazil; or if you’re in acting, it’s probably a good idea for you to be in Hollywood. So, you know, why not move to San Francisco?” This is not a new phenomenon, of course. And it doesn’t just apply to the valley. It’s what compelled Jane Wurwand to move halfway around the world in 1983, from Cape Town, South Africa, to Los Angeles, to break into the skin care game. (It was the only place with a meaningful concentration of skin care salons.) Six years earlier, it was why the legendary magazine publisher Jann Wenner actuallyleft San Francisco and moved the entire Rolling Stoneoperation to New York City. “It was kind of a no-brainer that that’s what we would do,” he told me. “If you want all the resources of talent, they were available in New York. That’s where the industry was.” There are situations, however, when you want to go where the industry isnot. Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield opened their business in Burlington, Vermont, because, in Ben’s words, “there wasn’t much ice cream there.” The brilliant songwriters and producers Antonio “L.A.” Reid and Kenny “Babyface” Edmonds formed LaFace Records in 1989 in Los Angeles, then left for reasons that they didn’t entirely understand in the moment, but that became crystal clear when they hung out their shingle in Atlanta, Georgia. “We would just hold auditions looking for talent,” Reid said of those first days in Atlanta, “and before long the talent just came running, because we were the only shop in town.” Almost twenty years later, Sadie Lincoln left California as well, except she went north, up to Portland, Oregon, to found a studio fitness business called Barre3, built around the use of the ballet barre and utilizing small isometric movements derived from ballet. Today, barre workouts are incredibly popular. There are a number of popular brands, including Barre3, with thousands of studios in medium-sized to big cities all over the world. But in 2007, when Sadie and her husband, Chris, and their two young children moved, the barre craze had not yet found Portland. Like many trends and boutique fitness concepts—yoga, Pilates, indoor cycling, HIIT (high-intensity interval training)—it was concentrated in the big coastal cities like New York and San Francisco, where she worked. The experience in theseplaces had also become somewhat standardized, based on the expectations of a rather homogeneous customer base. Portland offered Sadie a new type of fitness audience and a clean slate on all fronts. “We moved to Portland as a conscious decision where there was no barre around us,” Sadie said. “I loved using the ballet barre. I loved the isometric work and the small movements and the music. Everything else, we detached from the fitness industry, from yoga, from any traditional ballet heritage, and decided instead to just approach it with fresh eyes.” Sadie wanted to remake the barre experience into something more holistic and self-directed, which ran counter to the tendency of barre brands from New York and LA at the time, which sought to systematize their workouts. “I wanted to create a studio that instead of being ‘the answer’ or being a methodology, I just wanted it to be an exercise experience,” she said. “At the very beginning of class, every instructor will start by saying, ‘Welcome to Barre3. I give you full permission to do something different than I say. Your only job is to listen, not to me but to yourself. I’m your guide. I’m going to give you a platform here. We’re going to turn the music on. I’m going to show you how to align your body. And then I want you to make it your own.’” In talking to Sadie, you get the sense that only in Portland could an approach like hers take root the way it did and then grow nationwide to “more than 140 franchise studiosall powered by female entrepreneurs.” In fact, that is the sense I got from each of the founders I’ve profiled in this chapter regarding the importance of location in the growth of their businesses: “only in _________.” That is, only in Ottawa could Shopify get to become Shopify, without Silicon Valley doubters meddling with Tobi Lütke’s software. Only in the Bay Area could Stitch Fix find its footing as a technology business in order to fulfill its mission of re-personalizing apparel sales online. And only in Beverly Hills, or New York, or Burlington, or Atlanta, or Portland could these other amazing businesses find the growth they were looking for as well. Whether it’s actually true or not, in the minds of these founders, there wasone ideal place for them to start and grow their business. But it just so happens that there werethree different ways to get to that place: some had to move in order to break into their industries; some had to move in order to breakout of them; and some were perfectly situated right where they were.