Your job is to figure out which camp your business belongs in. 12 Get Attention, Part 1: Building Buzz Kleenex. Google. Coke. Xerox. Band-Aid. Popsicle. ChapStick. Jet Ski. Q-tips. Scotch tape. Post-it. These classic brands have achieved such ubiquity in our culture that they are becoming genericized and sometimes turned into verbs. When you need to blow your nose, you grab a Kleenex, not a tissue. When you need to find an address, you google it. When your lips are dry, you apply ChapStick, not lip balm. They have become such a part of our daily lives that a lot of people don’t even realize they are brands. Inevitably, we forget that at some point in the past, someone actually created these things and put them out into a world that had never heard of them before and had no idea what they were. The fact that any brand could achieve this kind of legendary, all-world status is a miraculous feat. That it could survive at all is itself a small miracle. Do you want to hear some crazy statistics? Every year, roughly 850,000 new businessesare established in the United States. Of them, 80 percent will make it to their first anniversary. Most of those will be non-employer businesses, meaning it’s just one person, in the proverbial garage, trying to make their dream come true. The numbers are even crazier when we drill down a little more and look at a single business category such as mobile apps. Across the five biggest app stores, there are now well over 5 million apps available for download. In 2018, those apps producednearly 200 billion individual downloads and $365 billion in revenue. In 2019, while I was writing this book, more than 1,000 new apps were addedevery single dayjust to the iOS app store. That’s the good news. Mobile apps have become part ofa flourishing marketplace with massive potential that remains to be tapped in places like China, India, and Brazil, among several other countries. And on the general business front, there is an appetite for new things. There are places continually opening up at the table for those who have the courage to present their ideas to the world. There is, in so many words, more than ample opportunity. Now the not-so-good news. Nearly 800,000 existing businessesclose their doors every year. And while 80 percent of new businessesmake it through one year, by year five or six survival is a fifty-fifty proposition. A coin flip. And the app market? Well, it is subject to a power law so steep it makes the streets of San Francisco, where many of the biggest apps have been developed, seem like gentle inclines. The top five apps, for example, account for 85 percent of all in-app time spent by users on their mobile devices. Which means that all the other 5 million–plus apps are competing for some portion of the remaining 15 percent of users’ in-app time. Not great. What I have learned, though, is that the difference between the apps at the top of the power curve and those near the bottom—or the businesses that make it past the five-year mark versus those that can only get to one year—rarely has much to do with the quality of the idea, or the passion of the entrepreneur, or even the size of the market. More often than not, the success of a new business depends on its ability to get attention—specifically, its ability to build buzz and to engineer word of mouth. While these two concepts are often used interchangeably, I actually think they are distinct phenomena that should be treated differently if a founder wants to be effective in attracting attention and growing their business. The first step is building buzz, which is somewhat self-explanatory. * It’s about getting a nontrivial number of people talking about your product out in the culture. It’s about creating a general awareness that your company exists and that there’s something cool or interesting or new (or all of the above) about what you’re doing. But just because building buzz is self-explanatory doesn’t mean it’s easy or simple. A lot of companies are bad at it, in fact, because their industries are, by their nature, not particularly exciting. This was one of the big obstacles that the Method guys had to overcome in order to break through. I mean, how do you get people excited about soap? By Eric Ryan’s own admission, the reason he hid all his research under his bed was because they were going into a category that was “so low interest and so boring” and that he himself thought was dorky. Dullness aside, the beauty of buzz—and the reason I think of it as the first phase of getting attention—is that you can often start to build buzz before you’ve even launched your business, long before the world has a chance to make up its mind about you or your product. One industry that is great at building buzz that way is Hollywood. When a studio wants to get behind a film, there are few operations better in attracting the public’s attention. In 2009, for example, one of the most talked-about films of the spring was the R-rated buddy road trip comedy The Hangover. For months leading up to the film’s release, Warner Bros. blanketed American cities with billboards and bus stop signage featuring hilarious pictures of the main characters—most famously, Ed Helms’s character, disheveled and confused, sporting a missing front tooth, and Zach Galifianakis’s character, in sunglasses, carrying an infant in a BabyBjörn. After that, the trailers started to come out, each with an increasing amount of unbelievable craziness, culminating in a scene inside a destroyed Las Vegas hotel room featuring Mike Tyson and a pet tiger. By the time the film debuted on June 2, everyone was talking about The Hangover, and a great many of them put their money where their mouth was that first weekend. The Hangoverwas thenumber one film at the box office the first and second weekends after its release. It amassed more than $70 million in ticket sales the first week alone, and it went on to a virtually unheard-of (for comedies) six-month run in theaters. All of it built on buzz created by the studio through a tsunami of major paid advertising that only increased as it became clear the movie was set to perform well. Obviously, most startups don’t have access to the kind of money the Warner Bros. marketing department was able to spread around for The Hangoverin 2009, but the principles involved in building buzz are still the same. It’s only thetactics that need to shift. Barely a year later, in fact, the founders of Instagram, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, figured out a way to get people talking about their photo-sharing app prior to its launch—not through public billboards but through private invitations. “One of the things we had was 100 invites for people to try Instagram out before we launched through the Apple Store,” Mike Krieger explained to me. “And we had this intuition that if you’re going to throw a party, which is kind of what an app launch really is, you want people to sort of know how they should act and who else is there, so we had to figure out how are we going to use these hundred people?” Essentially, they had to determine who would be best suited to telling the world about their new photo-sharing app. They decided to spread the invitations out among two groups: journalists and designers. Journalists are a no-brainer, right? They’re writers with platforms that reach thousands and sometimes millions of people. But designers? Wouldn’t photographers make more sense? Not really, according to Mike. “We figured photographers might not instantly take to Instagram because they want super high resolution when they have other constraints,” he said, “and designers love photography, but it’s not their main job.” Basically, professional photographers are kind of snobby about photos, and Instagram, which was developed to democratize the ability to take cool photos, allowed designers to pretend to be photographers. Kevin and Mike tapped into their network of Bay Area–based journalists whom they’d gotten to know over the previous couple years while trying to launch their first idea, a check-in app called Burbn. Then, to find designers, they went to a site called Dribbble. “It’s a place where designers go and show off their best work,” Mike said. “So we picked the ten top designers and we emailed them. Some ignored us, which is fine, but some wrote back and said, ‘Sure I will try your app.’” It turned out to be an ideal combination for spreading the word about Instagram. On the one hand, Kevin and Mike could leverage the audiences of writers who held some degree of authority on the subject of technology. And on the other hand, they had a group of highly qualified users who were, in their own way, talking about the app to the world through their images. “It was great because coming into the app on day one, we had a page that showed the most popular photos across the community,” Mike said of the earliest users’ experience seeing the designers’ photos, “and they were like, ‘Wow, you could take that on the phone?’” The response from the market was immediate. “The first twenty-four hours we had 25,000 people signed up around the world,” Kevin said. Shortly thereafter they took $8 million in financing on a roughly $30 million valuation. Within a year, they had 10 million registered users, and investors were showing up at their offices unsolicited to help them grow even further. In effect, what Kevin and Mike were able to do by recruiting designers and journalists was to play a game of show-and-tell. The designers showed people that there was something really amazing they could do with just the phone in their pocket, and the journalists told prospective users exactly what that something was. It was the perfect combination of demonstration and explanation, which I think is the recipe for building the kind of buzz you need in order to stand out—regardless of whether you have an app or a consumer packaged goods business or a clothing line or a brick-and-mortar retail store. In short, you need to show people what you’ve got, and you need to tell them what it is. Depending on your relationships and your resources, you may have greater access to one group than to the other—demonstrators or explainers, showers or tellers—and even then your access might be limited. But fortunately it doesn’t always take a massive groundswell to get the buzz going. Sometimes it’s just a matter of being in the right place or finding that one right person. For Randy Hetrick, the former Navy SEAL and the creator of the TRX Suspension Training system, that place was the IDEA World Convention in San Diego, and the person was future NFL Hall of Fame quarterback Drew Brees.