It gave me an even deeper appreciation for how hard it can be for someone with a new idea to find a seat at the table. It was a feeling he articulated in his next words: “You know, for somebody who’s starting a venture, and particularly if you’ve got a product for which there isn’t precedent, the big challenge is obscurity—trying to get out of obscurity and get up on the radar.” It got me thinking about that old philosophical thought experiment: If a tree falls in the forest and there’s no one to hear it, does it make a sound? I think there is a business analog to that: If a company opens itsdoors and no one hears about it, does it ever really exist? Or is it just one of the 170,000 new businesses that year that didn’t make it to its first birthday and whose existence you can only infer from a table of numbers in a Bureau of Labor Statistics report? The answer, I believe, is Of course it existed! If you took that leap off the cliff while attempting to build your own airplane on the way down, you deserve to be known. But as the builder of that plane, it’s also your job to be the creator of the buzz from that plane’s engines. It’s your job to make sure that the sound of your doors opening reaches past your front steps and far enough out into the world for potential customers to hear it. It’s your job to get attention for the product or the service you are bringing to market. It’s usually not easy, and you are going to need help from all forms of media to make it happen, because like Jen Rubio said, nobody wants to hear you talk about yourself. But it’s doable, particularly when you are able to build buzz among manypossible customers while at the same time engineering word of mouth among yourideal customers. 13 Get Attention, Part 2: Engineering Word of Mouth In 2012, amidst an explosion of social networking platforms, smartphones, and big data, the statistician Nate Silver published a book titled The Signal and the Noise, about the difficulty of developing accurate predictions. Up until that point, “signal-to-noise ratio” was a term used primarily by scientists and engineers to describe the power of a desired bit of information in relationship to its surroundings. After the success of Silver’s book, however, the phrase morphed into convenient shorthand for nonscientists to talk about problems of communication and value and relevance. In other words, with all the information coming at us today, what should we listen to? What is worth remembering? What is actually important or reliable? Out of all this noise, where (and what) is the signal? This is a problem that nearly every founder has to solve. How do you cut through the endless clutter of everyday life? How do you stand out from the competition? How do you get consumers to pay attention to you and your product? How do you break out from the noise andbecome the signal? As we saw in chapter 12, building buzz is a big, important step in that direction—in fine-tuning your frequency and amplifying thesound—but it’s not the only step. There is another, arguably bigger one to be taken. I’m talking about creatingword of mouth. Building buzz is about leveraging specific relationships (tastemakers, media contacts) and resources (OPM, expertise) to get your name out there in front of as many people as possible. It’s about billboards, blog posts, podcast interviews, and celebrity shout-outs. It’s creating what the investor and best-selling author Tim Ferriss calls a “surround sound effect.” It’s the sense that you are everywhere, when in reality you’re just getting your name out in the handful of places where your core customers spend their time. “I would create the perception, and to some extent, the reality that I was ubiquitous, inescapable,” Tim told an audience during a Q&A session at the headquarters of a product design firm called ZURB in 2011. “Tim Ferriss is everywhere. No, actually he’s just on TechCrunch, Gizmodo, and Mashable, but that’s okay.” Engineering word of mouth is about converting all that wonderful name recognition you’ve just achieved from the buzz into sales. It’s about getting your product into people’s hands so they can then put its name in the ears of all their friends. This is how we fueled the growth of the How I Built Thispodcast and how wecontinued to grow to reach nearly 3 million people each week. Our listeners tell their friends. And by the way . . . we encourage them to do so! Because word of mouth is not a billboard or an article or an interview. It’s a dialogue. A conversation. It’s a text message from one friend to another telling them, “You’ve gotta try this.” “There’s a hidden powerto that simple phrase . . . It’s like ‘open sesame,’” Reid Hoffman said on an episode of his podcast, Masters of Scale, titled “Why Customer Love Is All You Need.” “All the money and all of the marketing savvy in the world cannot sustain a successful product’s growth in the long run. You need more than customers’ attention. You need their unflagging devotion.” Indeed, the difference between buzz and word of mouth is the difference between taking a big step toward brand awareness and then making a quantum leap toward customer acquisition and long-term fandom. Remember the example of The Hangoverin chapter 12? It rode almost entirely on early buzz to $45 million at the box office during its first weekend. But it was the wave of enthusiastic personal endorsements starting with that first weekend of moviegoers that propelled the film to its ultimate success. Friends told friends, who told more friends. They went to the theaters in groups, often multiple times. The Hangoverfinished its first week at $70 million, landed at number one for a second weekend in a row, and then went on to complete its unheard-of (for modern comedies) six-month theatrical run that netted more than $275 million at the box office in the United States alone. Two years before The Hangovercame out, during the announcement of a new Facebook user-centered advertising program, Mark Zuckerberg told an assembled group of tech journalists and advertisers that “nothing influences people morethan a recommendation from a trusted friend.” The Hangoverfranchise would prove Zuckerberg correct over the next several years. It developed such a loyal fan base that today the first two films in the series are two of the top ten highest-grossing R-rated films of all time, with more than $1 billion in ticket sales between them worldwide. “A trusted referral is the Holy Grail,” Zuckerberg said in describing what is, effectively, the true currency of word-of-mouth marketing. One need only talk to a founder whose business has benefited from the spread of that currency, someone who has sipped from the Holy Grail, to understand the value and power of word of mouth. Someone like Jerry Murrell, who, in 1986, decided to open a burger joint in Arlington, Virginia, with his wife and four boys that they called Five Guys. Today, Five Guys is one of the most popular and beloved fast-casual chains in the country with more than 1,500 stores worldwide. But the first thing to know about Five Guys is that it absolutely should not have worked. The 1980s was a golden age of expansion for fast food. At the same time, 1986 was the slowest economic year in the United States since the recession four years earlier. And Jerry, well, he was already a serial failed entrepreneur, having joined the ranks of that unfortunate 20 percent whose big ideas don’t last much more than a year. “I tried a few businesses,” he said of his early ventures in the mid-1970s and early 1980s. “I was a financial planner. I started a company in the oil business in Texas. I tried to start a water business, of all things. My wife and I went into the real estate business. We were experts at buying real high. I really didn’t know what I was doing.” So obviously the natural next step was to open a hamburger shop just down the road from the Pentagon and Arlington National Cemetery, “where nobody can see it,” as Jerry described the place. I’m being facetious, but that’s actually how he and his wife, Janie, saw things at the time. This little, out-of-the-way, hole-in-the-wall burger stand . . . it was a good idea! “Something was telling us it was the right thing to do,” he said, “and for some reason we all seemed to be on board with it.” So they took $35,000 from their children’s college fund, fixed up some old equipment, found a place with really low rent, and put the rest of the money into opening its doors. Their thinking was, “If we can put the store where it’s hard to find, but we can get people coming there, then we know we’ve got something.” It sounds crazy. The first thing the owner of a new store should do is to find a storefront with the highest visibility possible, the most foot traffic. That’s Retail 101. It’s fundamental. Like building buzz but with brick-and-mortar. In retrospect, however, this was a shrewd, if also lucky, choice. Had they been on a more highly trafficked main road, not only would Jerry and Janie have been competing with the massive fast-food chains that dominated that kind of real estate, but they’d also never really have known whether diners in those critical early days had stumbled upon Five Guys by accident or actively sought it out based on early buzz and word of mouth. By making Five Guys harder to find, Jerry had actually set up the conditions to more accurately determine whether or not the word was spreading, and if so, how fast. He did not have to wait long. “When we first opened up, at eleven o’clock, there was no business at all until quarter to twelve. Then oneperson finally walked in. And by 12:30, we were almost packed,” he said. The next day it was more of the same. And the day after, and the day after. Right away it was clear to Jerry what was happening: people were leaving Five Guys, going home or back to work, and telling their friends and family about this new place down the road, a little off the beaten path, that they absolutely had to try if they liked great burgers and fries. “That’s the only way they would have found out about it,” he said, reflecting on those first fragile weeks when they had no money for advertising and marketing, only for product and payroll. Luckily, Five Guys made money from its very first day.