A year later, with Stonyfield yogurt’s popularity still on the rise, they were doing more than a million dollars in sales, they were buying milk from a dozen different local suppliers, and they’d reached the absolute limit of the production capacity of the farm they’d raised $500,000 to expand. So they contracted with a dairy over the border in western Massachusetts that had unfilled capacity to take over production. And for a year and a half, things went great. “We’ve got paved roads, regular power, and we really began to grow,” Gary said. Sales increased from $1.1 million to $1.7 million. “We thought we were coming out of the woods.” Then the famous stock market crash of October 1987 happened. Black Monday. The Thursday before, the bank called Gary to tell him that the Small Business Administration was pulling their loan guarantees for the dairy in Massachusetts and asked him if he wanted to buy the dairy. Things were good, but they weren’t “buy a dairy over the phone” good. Gary politely declined, and on Monday, as the bottom was falling out of the stock market, the bank put the Massachusetts dairy into receivership and slammed a padlock on the front door with an entire run of Gary’s cups, lids, fruit, and yogurt inside. Then the state demanded $100,000 from Gary and Sam in outstanding co-packer fees to get it out. Now is when you quit, right? Not Gary. He goes back to the well. He asks his investors—which include his mother and mother-in-law—for even more money. But not just the $100,000 to get his stuff out of hock, which he needs within hours so the fruit and yogurt mix don’t spoil. He also asks for anadditional $100,000 to get the old plant at Stonyfield Farm back up and running so he and Sam can take over production. “What could we do?” Gary asked rhetorically. “We took a look at the old yogurt works up on the hilltop farm where the roosters were now living and said, ‘Son of a gun, we’ve got to come back here.’” Which is exactly what they do, despite having now grown more than 100 percent beyond the capacity of the plant. “In order to keep up, we have to produce twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week,” Gary said. “Every other night, Samuel or I had to make yogurt, and this continued for twenty months.” Twenty months! It’s like the crash put them in a time machine and sent them back two years. Not just because Gary and Sam were back to making yogurt with their own two hands again, but they were also starting to burn through cash like in the old days, too. “Twenty-five thousand dollars a week on top of the $200,000 that we had borrowed.” By Christmas, they were $600,000 in debt. By Christmas of the following year, that number had ballooned to nearly $2 million. By Christmas of 1989, they were $2.7 million in the hole, with nearly 300 very nervous individual investors starting to ask questions. And in the middle of this tailspin—with more than a million dollars of his mother-in-law’s money that “she could never afford to lose”; with Meg pregnant with their first son and at her wits’ end with all the ups and downs—he and Sam spent three months negotiating with a new dairy in Vermont to take over production and to solve all their capacity problems, only to have the dairy change the deal at the very last second and basically try to steal their business out from under them. News of which Gary had to deliver to his wife upon his return home from their meeting-cum-ambush—after driving two hours at night in an early spring blizzard and making that day’s batch of yogurt once they got there. Okay, nowhas to be when you quit. What right-thinking person would continue to endure this parade of horrible events, especially with a baby on the way? “I knew it was over,” Gary said of the realization that they would have to sign this poison pill of a deal. “This was the darkest of the dark hours. We’re burning $25,000 a week. We’re taking money we cannot ever pay back. We have no solution.” In the startup world, there is a name for this flat, desperate, profitless in-between place that Gary Hirshberg had spent a decade battling through and now found himself swallowed up by. It’s called the “trough of sorrow”—a term coined by Paul Graham to describe the period young companies find themselves in as a result of a lack of product-market fit. This is when, as Marc Andreessen described it in his 2007 Guide to Startups series, * “the customers aren’t quitegetting value out of the product, word of mouth isn’t spreading, usage isn’t growing that fast, press reviews are kind of ‘blah,’ the sales cycle takes too long, and lots of deals never close.” This is where Airbnb found itself after the Democratic National Convention in 2008, for example. They’d signed up 800 homes in a matter of four weeks, they got a bunch of bookings, and then, as Joe Gebbia remembered, “the convention ended, and all of those numbers came crashing back down.” It was demoralizing to Joe and his co-founders, Brian Chesky and Nate Blecharczyk, because they thought they’d figured everything out and were in prime position to raise money and really grow this startup. But all their numbers trending back toward zero seemed to validate the skepticism of a sizable portion of the venture capital world that didn’t get their idea. When only ten of the first twenty investors they emailed with their pitch deck responded, and when none of those respondents chose to invest, I don’t think anyone would have blamed the guys if they’d decided then and there to pull the rip cord on this crazy home-sharing rental concept. Just as no one would have blamed Gary Hirshberg and Samuel Kaymen if they had chosen to call it a day on yogurt asthey drove back to the farm through whiteout conditions on that cold April night in 1988. Even so, neither set of founders gave up. They continued to push forward, to fight for altitude, until they found a solution to their problems. Gary and Sam happened to find theirs right there on the ride home from Vermont. “I turned to Samuel,” Gary recalled, “and I said, ‘Just for the fun of it, what would be the cheapest yogurt plant we could build somewhere that would actually cover our capacity?’ And he said, ‘You know, I was thinking the same thing.’ So he flicked on the dome light in the car, pulled out his pad, and we started designing a yogurt plant.” Gary and Sam got back around 11 p.m. that night. Gary helped Sam make the day’s yogurt, then Gary went home to give Meg the news. “She wakes up and says, ‘So is the deal signed?’ And I said, ‘No, that is not going to happen . . . but we’ve got a much better idea!’” Gary slept alone in his office that night, but he wasn’t wrong. Building their own plant, one that could meet and adapt to their changing capacity needs, was a great idea. It was the piece of their entrepreneurial puzzle that had been missing this entire time. A piece that would take eighteen months and $597,000 (with an 85 percent loan guarantee from the New Hampshire SBA) to build. By the end of 1989, Stonyfield Farm was operating out of its new facility in Londonderry, New Hampshire, where it is still headquartered today. That year, the company lost $1.4 million, but it was on $3.4 million in sales, with trend lines that had already started to turn around. The next year, revenue nearly doubled, and Stonyfield lost only $900,000. Then the following year, 1992, sales climbed past $10 million, and the company actually made money for the first time in its history. Like Stonyfield, Airbnb’s problem wasn’t the founders’ idea (there was a market for this service); it was their execution. The problem was twofold: First, many people who were listing their homes were posting crappy pictures, which made the homes look ugly, if not also a little sketchy. Second, renters were uncomfortable paying listers in cash when they arrived to check in. Handing someone a wad of cash for allowing you to stay in their homeis a little weird. I get it. So did Joe and Brian and Nate. They quickly added a payment system to the Airbnb website and then hit the road to teach some of their earliest power users how to take and post good photos of their homes. The results were fairly immediate. The indicators for every relevant factor that Marc Andreessen identified as evidence of product-market fit began to turn toward the positive. They saw an increase in repeat customers and referrals; people couldn’t stop talking about the company; site visits, user signups, and bookings went through the roof; they got a whole new round of press coverage; and not too much later, they started signing meaningful term sheets with big-time investors. That’s how integral product-market fit can be to the success of a young business, and how simple it can be to get to product-market fit. Just one or two things on the margins can change everything, both for the user experience and for the long-term prospects of the business itself. “When you get right down to it, you can ignore almost everything else,” Andreessen said, if you just fix these things. Stonyfield fixed one thing: they built their own yogurt plant. That was really all it took to get them through the trough of sorrow, into product-market fit, and onto a rocket ship of growth. They turned a profit in 1992, they did $44 million in sales in 1995 and $78 million in 1998, and they ended the decade by hitting $100 million in total revenue. Airbnb made two tweaks—pictures and payments—and in a matter of only a few years, they went from three guys with a weird idea that only seemed to work when a city ran out of hotel rooms, to billionaires at the head of a tech unicorn that was threatening to disrupt the entire hospitality industry. When I talk to founders like Gary Hirshberg and Joe Gebbia, I’m always fascinated by the decisions they made when they were in this crucible period. But what I’m most intrigued by ishow they knew what to do. If you ask them, they’ll tell you they didn’t know; they were just doing whatever made sense in the moment. Of the available options in front of them, they chose the least bad ones. But I think there’s more to it than that. When I was a Nieman Fellow in 2008, trying to navigate my owncrucible of career advancement in journalism (earlier that year, I had been told by a powerful executive that I didn’t have the chops to be a radio host), I sat in on a leadership class at the Kennedy School of Government taught by a professor named Ronald Heifetz.