Maybe he could have talked slower or faster, more or less. Or maybe there was nothing he could have done. Maybe he did everything right. Who knows? I certainly don’t. And like I said, that’s not what this chapter is about. It’s about understanding how to think about venture capital. The first thing to understand is that raising venture capital is about making a promise. A promise that you have a product or a service that people will pay money for, that you have a plan to reach as many of those people as possible, and that in exchange for lots of money, you will bust your butt to reach them. The next thing to understand is that good investors know the promise you are making to them is just that—a promise. They know you can’t make any guarantees. You can do everything right, but if the world shifts under your feet, there’s nothing you can do about it. Venture capital is by its nature a gamble—it’s right there in the name—and every gamble comes with the risk of heavy losses. Professional investors know and accept this fact, which is why they also do everything they can to mitigate the risk before writing very large checks. One of the principal ways they do this, especially if they are unfamiliar with your industry, is to ask lots and lots of questions: How do you expect to scale this? Where is the growth going to come from? Who is the customer for this? Doesn’t something like this already exist? How will you get costs down? Where will you manufacture? Where will you be based? What’s your marketing strategy? Why does anyone need this? Why would anyone do this? * Melanie Perkins, the co-founder of the Australian online graphic design platform Canva, encountered countless of these types of questions from the more than 100 investors she pitched over a three-month period in 2012. She traveled from Perth to San Francisco, then to Maui (for a kitesurfing excursion masquerading as a tech conference run by the investor Bill Tai, whom Melanie had met at another conference in Perth), then to any number of places in between. Anywhere there was an event with investors present, Melanie found her way there. For almost the entire time Melanie was in the United States trying to raise money to build out and launch Canva, her efforts were fruitless, at least as far as getting anyone to write a check was concerned. They were not without merit, though, because with each rejection she learned a little more. “It was really beneficial because we got so many different questions and comments,” Melanie said, “and it meant that we really had to know what we were doing and really refine our strategy.” Every single day, after she’d pitch an investor who would invariably pass, she’d go back and revise the pitch deck to reflect what she’d learned from the questions that had been asked of her. “Every time we got a really hard question, that would go right to the front of the pitch deck,” Melanie recalled. “So the hardest questions were answered right at the front.” Eventually, investors ran out of questions whose answers didn’t already appear in the front of Melanie’s pitch. Before long, those answers were able to allay the doubts and concerns of investors who maybe didn’t fully understand Canva’s business, but who recognized the opportunity that was beginning to emerge with design and publishing tools moving online. By the time Melanie’s tourist visa expired and she had to return to Australia, she’d raised $750,000 and would eventually oversubscribe her $1.5 million seed round. All, I think Melanie would say, because she was able to come up with an answer to every question a skeptical, risk-sensitive investor might have. As an entrepreneur, you have to expect these questions. You have to know that you are going to face them. Jenn Hyman did. Tristan Walker did, too. And you have to be prepared to manage the fact that when you are faced with what feels like an inquisition with no right answers, it is only natural that the doubt pouring out of investors will begin to creep into your brain and make you start to wonder, “Am I the crazy one here? Maybe this idea really is silly. Maybe there is no way it can work.” This is a daily fight when you’re raising money. And if your goal is to scale your business, as I talked about at the beginning of this chapter, then you need to fight extra hard to reject each of these nagging, self-doubting thoughts. If, however, you find that you aren’t all that concerned with becoming the biggest you can possibly be, then the resolution of this fight could very well be walking away altogether. It’s Tristan’s greatest regret in the building of Walker & Company that he took professional money at all. The things he had to endure in the seed stage were tough enough—comparisons to the Chris Rock movie Good Hair, confident assertions that the problem he thought he was solving wasn’t really a problem at all—but when he went back to Sand Hill Road to scale the company a couple years later and really take it big, that’s where the real frustration occurred. He could not, no matter what he said or did, raise more than $30 million. That sounds like a lot, but at a time when VCs were throwing hundreds of millions of dollars at far less worthy companies—as well as at competitors like Harry’s, which started the same year as Walker & Company—$30 million felt like the ultimate vote of no confidence. Without more money, Tristan wouldn’t be able to invest in marketing, product development, research, and, of course, production. He would have to find another way to grow his company. All Tristan could do was remember that “if there was anyone qualified to do this idea, [it was] me”; that he had the best “bad” idea in the space; that he was uniquely positioned to execute it; and that he knew more about his business and his market than the VCs did. They knew money, but he knew his business. Fortunately, there was one other thing he could do in support of his long-term vision for the company. In December 2018, he sold Walker & Company to Procter & Gamble for much less money than he might have gotten on the open market. As part of the deal, Tristan moved the company to Atlanta, became the first African American CEO of a Procter & Gamble portfolio company in its 180-year history, and in the process severely limited the return the VC firms that had invested in his Series A got on their money. This was Tristan’s attempt to grow the company on histerms, to take a step back in order to move forward with more confidence down the road, and to show future entrepreneurs—especially those of color—that while VCs might have all the power over the money, that doesn’t mean they are necessarily wiser than you or that they are always right. You can be right, too, whether you choose to take their money or not. 16 Protect What You’ve Built I ’ve lived in cities most of my life. But on the rare occasions when I’ve used a wheelbarrow, more than once I’ve had the experience of catching the tire on an uneven edge and having the whole thing topple over. Have you ever pushed a full wheelbarrow over a curb or down a step, only to have it bounce and tip and send the load flying in the air? It’s so frustrating! What if there was a better way? What if, instead of a wheel on the front of your wheelbarrow, there was aball? And what if that ball rotated 360 degrees for increased maneuverability and was attached to the front of a redesigned barrow that allowed for easy hauling and unparalleled stability? Well, look no further, because the Ballbarrow is here! Trust me, it will change your life, much the way it should have changed the life of its inventor, James Dyson, who, thanks to an opportunistic sales manager, a fickle board of directors, and a failed lawsuit, ended up with nothing to show for nearly a decade of hard work. Today, James Dyson is best known for the bagless cyclonic vacuum cleaner that bears his name. It has made him one of the richest men and largest landowners in the United Kingdom. But in the early 1970s, long before he spent five years in his coach house—which was really more of a glorified toolshed—building more than 5,000 prototypes of the vacuum cleaner that would make him a household name, Dyson bought the old farm on which that coach house sits and which inspired the invention at the heart of his very first business—the Ballbarrow. “I was fixing up the house and doing a garden,” he told me, “and I noticed the deficiencies of metal wheelbarrows with narrow wheels. They’re very unstable. The legs sink into soft ground. The wheels sink into soft ground. So as I used one, I started to redesign it.” The product he eventually took to market solved every problem he encountered as he went about renovating his new home, but it came with some problems of its own. Namely, hardware stores and garden centers didn’t want to carry it. “They felt it looked very strange,” he said, and beyond that, “not many people buy wheelbarrows. So it’s a very small market.” Think for a moment: How many wheelbarrows have you purchased in your lifetime? One, maybetwo. Exactly. James’s solution to that was to sell directly to consumers through advertisements in local newspapers. “[The ad] was always next to incontinence pants or the baldness cures,” he said, “but I started to get quite a lot of business. People actually sent checks.” So many checks, in fact, that within a few years, his Ballbarrow had 50 percent of the UK market, for whatever that was worth, which was apparently not enough, because he still wasn’t making any money, and he needed to take on investors as a result. He formed a companywith a group of investors. They called it Kirk-Dyson, a fifty-fifty partnership. As part of the funding process, James also assigned the patent for the Ballbarrow to the company. This was, and continues to be, standard practice in most industries. The problem for James was that when they ran out of money again and additional investors came on board, his ownership stake was diluted down to 30 percent, which meant he effectively no longer owned the patent on the very product that he’d designed and that sat at the center of the entire business. It was owned instead by whoever controlled the other 70 percent of the shares in the company.