To make matters worse, when they decided to expand into the US market in hopes of clawing their way toward profitability, the salesmanager tasked with securing a partnership decided to sell the design to an American plastics company so the firm could manufacture and sell the Ballbarrow under the machine’s own name. Naturally, James sued to protect his intellectual property. Except it wasn’t his property anymore, even though his name is on the patent. He lost every suit, along with hundreds of thousands of dollars in lawyers’ fees. After he returned to the United Kingdomfollowing another legal defeat in an American court in 1979, the board of directors fired him from his own company. James would not make this mistake a second time. Several years later, Amway copied his Dual Cyclone vacuum design and made their own version called the CMS1000. A decade after that, Hoover did the same thing and didn’t even bother to hide it. They called their machine the Triple Vortex Cleaner. Very original. In both instances, James was prepared. This time, he owned the business and controlled the underlying patent for his invention. And this time, when he sued for infringement, he won. After five years fighting Amway in US court, they settled and Amway became a joint licensee that sold Dyson vacuums. Hoover lost at trial in the UK High Court, and then again on appeal. In 2002, after a three-year battle, Hoover settled with Dyson out of court for £6 million, which, at that time, was the largest court-ordered award ever granted in a UK patent suit. Over the years, James seems to have gone back and forth on how he feels about his experience with the Ballbarrow. In 1994, he said it was a “terrible mistake.” In his autobiography three years later, he said, “It was like giving birth, and then losing the child.” But with time and multiple successful patent defenses, he was much more sanguine about the whole thing. (A few billion dollars can do that for a person.) When we talked in 2018, he said, “Sometimes one needs to go through these rites of passage to understand the importance of ownership of intellectual property, the importance of having a majority share in your own company, or even all the shares.” He is right, of course (and who are we to argue with someone who owns more property than the queen of England?), but it’s also not that simple when it comes to protecting what you’ve built. Owning and controlling your intellectual property is one thing; defending it in court is another. Sure, in some instances, the decision to sue to protect your property is self-evident, as it was for Randy Hetrick in 2010 when he found his TRX Suspension Trainer drowning online in a sea of Chinese counterfeits. “They were devouring my business,” he told me. “If you looked for TRX on Amazon, for instance, you would be served up our product alongside a bunch of others that were a quarter or a fifth the price, because of course they didn’t have to spend any money to develop the market. It puts huge pressure on the entire business model.” It got so bad with the knockoffs in 2014 and 2015 that TRX actually experienced negative growth. Randyhad to sue. So he identified one of the largest infringers and filed a patent and trademark suit in federal court. It took three years and $2.5 million, but eventually TRX won a unanimous verdict and a jury award of $6.8 million in damages. “It validated all of our trademarks and our key patents,” Randy explained, “and our business almost immediately leapt up by 40 percent.” Clearly, Randy made the right decision in bringing a lawsuit in defense of his intellectual property. But if there’s one thing I have learned about intellectual property from interviewing so many entrepreneurs, it’s that knowing whennot to sue is just as important as knowing when to do so. And knowingwhy you’re suing is even more important than that. This was a lesson that Curt Jones learned the hard way with his ice cream company, Dippin’ Dots, founded in 1988. If you haven’t been to a sports stadium, a concert arena, a mall, or an amusement park in the past twenty years, you may not know that Dippin’ Dots are colorful bead-sized ice cream balls created by dripping a flavored ice cream mixture into liquid nitrogen, freezing them instantly. They are delicious the way any ice cream is delicious, and they are fun kind of the way Pop Rocks are fun. My kids love them. By the mid-1990s, children across the United States and abroad loved them, too. Curt had shifted the business into a wholesaler-dealership model, which by then had helped the Dippin’ Dots brand spread beyond brick-and-mortar retail and small stands in placeslike Opryland, in Nashville, Tennessee, where they got their start. It also helped the Dippin’ Dots business make money for the first time. “You were always spending what you made,” Curt said about the beginnings of the business, “but we were starting to generate some income through wholesale. Within five years or so, we reached a million dollars in sales on a wholesale level.” As part of the dealership license, a dealer would buy a large, branded storage freezer along with product on a revolving basis. The product would arrive packaged as five 1-gallon heat-sealed bags of ice cream packed into an old milk crate, which would in turn be packed into an insulated container filled with dry ice. Dealers also had the right to use the Dippin’ Dots logo for their cups, bags, and related packaging and marketing items. All of which should have been fine, except “it wasn’t a very tight contract, and we started losing control of the brand a little bit toward the late nineties,” Curt said. Dealers were producing all sorts of things with the Dippin’ Dots name, but with different colors and in different sizes. It was kind of a “hodgepodge,” as Curt put it. Other dealers who were leveraging the brand appropriately were making good money with Dippin’ Dots but were complaining that it was impossible for them to build equity in their businesses and make improvements because they were only signed to a one-year contract. This led Curt to shift to a franchise model in 1999, which gave dealers greater security with a five-year contract and a five-year renewal, but required them to pay Curt a royalty on sales (instead of simply the flat fee that comes with wholesale) and allowed Curt to include “more stipulations as to how to use the Dippin’ Dots logo,” among other things. It was a win-win proposition—one that quadrupled Dippin’ Dots’ annual sales revenue over the next six years for the 105 (of 113) dealers who made the transition to franchises. The eight who didn’t sign the franchise contract had other plans related to something that had been going on in the background for a few years. Curt had been locked in a patent infringement lawsuit with a man named Thomas Mosey, out of Dallas, Texas, since 1996, after Mosey decided to start making his own “dot ice cream” usingliquid nitrogen and called it Dots of Fun. Dippin’ Dots’ slogan was “Ice Cream of the Future.” Mosey’s slogan for Dots of Fun? “Tomorrow’s Ice Cream . . . Today.” Based on the patent for his ice cream that Curt had filed in 1992, Dippin’ Dots was able to secure an injunction against Dots of Fun in 1996, which put the competitive situation on the back burner for a while. But in 1999, just as Dippin’ Dots was making the transition to a franchise company, a special master in the patent case ruled that if Dots of Fun put a regular chunk of ice cream in the cup with its dots, its product would no longer infringe. That’s when the “ringleader” of the eight holdout dealers, as Curt called him, reached out to Mosey in search of a better deal. “They went to him and said, ‘Hey, we think you can make ice cream based on this new ruling,’” Curt said, “and that’s exactly what happened. He started making ice cream again and changed the name to Mini Melts.” This was only the beginning of Curt Jones’s long nightmare. He would fight Thomas Mosey in court for another six or seven years. He sued Mosey and Mini Melts for $16 million. Mosey countersued for $10 million, challenging the validity of Curt’s patent in the process. I will spare you the details of what would become a long, protracted court battle, but in the end neither side won a judgment, Curt’s patent was invalidated on the basis of fraud, and because of that, he ended up having to pay Mosey’s attorney’s fees in addition to his own. A bill that came to a whopping $10 million, not including the $750,000 he had to spend to appeal the fraud finding and to clear his name. Had you ever heard of Mini Melts before reading this? Have you ever had a cup of Mini Melts ice cream? Did you know they are still around? If so, you are in the minority, in America anyway. What about Dippin’ Dots? Had you heard of them? Have you seen one of their stands? Have you had a cup? If you have young kids, I suspect the answer to at least one of those questions is yes, not only because the ice cream is good but also because the brand is really strong. As Curt acknowledged in our interview, the decision to go after Thomas Mosey and Dots of Fun/Mini Melts—even though it wasjustified on principle—turned out to be a big miscalculation. Even if the courts hadn’t blown apart Curt’s patent claims, the value in Dippin’ Dots was not really in the intellectual property; it was in thebrand. It was no coincidence that the dealers who were most successful in the beginning were the ones who leaned into the branding. Nor is it a surprise that once the company moved over to a franchise model and made the branding requirements more strict, the entire enterprise took off. When kids go to baseball games or amusement parks, they don’t want “dot ice cream,” they want Dippin’ Dots. You simply can’t buy that kind of brand equity. You can’t copy or sue your way to it either, as Mosey would discover eventually. Obviously, Curt could not have predicted all of this when he first filed suit in 1996. At that time, his position and his intent made total sense. “We felt like [Mosey] was infringing a valid patent,” Curt said. “All we really wanted the guy to do was to stop what he was doing.” Perfectly reasonable. But then the landscape changed.