Between the time the initial injunction became circumventable in 1999 and the litigation concluded in 2006, Dippin’ Dots grew by leaps and bounds. By then, one competitor flagrantly exploiting Curt’s patent didn’t seem to be affecting Dippin’ Dots much at all. And its sturdiness as a business, I would argue, was due almost entirely to its strength as a brand. Aleading brand, no less. This is what differentiates Randy Hetrick’s decision to sue from Curt’s. While Curt was defending his intellectual property just like Randy was, and rightfully so, he ended up exposing the thing he actually built—the brand, the business—to an existential risk instead of defending it from an existential threat, as Randy did. With the best of intentions, Curt lost sight ofwhy he was suing and what actually needed protection. Now here’s the key: Curt still could have weathered this storm and survived what in hindsight was a strategic misstep. In 2006, the year the lawsuit concluded, Dippin’ Dots had its best year to date, doing $47 million in sales. Except then the world around him started to unravel. Milk prices went up by 34 percent. Fuel prices went up. Even liquid nitrogen prices increased by 10 percent. “All of a sudden, on almost the same sales we had the year before, we went from a netof two or three million dollars in profits to a loss,” Curt said. On top of that, they now carried a $13 or $14 million debt load—twice the amount of debt they normally carried, thanks to the lawyers’ fees they still had to pay. Then the global financial crisis hit, just as that note came due. The local bank Curt had been working with for years gave Dippin’ Dots a three-month extension to figure out a way to either pay off or restructure the debt. But during those three months, the financial crisis got appreciably worse, and in that environment, with everything going upside down, the bank decided to tighten its purse strings and close what used to be an open, helping hand into a fist, with which it punched Curt right in the gut. Not unlike what happened to Gary Hirshberg and Stonyfield Farm in the wake of the 1987 stock market crash, the day Dippin’ Dots’ extension expired and the payment was due, Curt’s bank sent an email informing him that he was in default and that therefore all his other loans with the bank were also in default. Curt fought for the next three years. He fought creditors. He fought the market as sales declined. People didn’t buy as much novelty ice cream when they had to worry about their own loans defaulting. He paid what he could to the bank, often at exorbitant credit-card–style interest rates. He did whatever he could to keep the company alive. “We could’ve walked away and been okay,” Curt said, “but I grew up on a farm in the second-poorest county in the state of Illinois. In that area, if you weren’t farming, you could be a teacher or you could work at the prison, but not much else. We had 200 employees. We provided 200 jobs for that area. So when things got bad, we put a lot of our personal assets back into the business to keep it alive. I guess we were thinking, ‘We’ve just got to get through this, and everything’s going to be better.’” For a while, it seemed like it would. “We had actually survived from late 2007, during some of the hardest times with the recession and low sales [through 2010],” he said. “In 2011, we actually felt like we were going to dig our way out of this.” And then the bank put them into foreclosure, which forced Curt and Dippin’ Dots to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy—something, as an old-school guy who paidhis debts as a matter of pride and principle, Curt thought he would never do. It was then that the company really began to slip away from Curt, much the way Ballbarrow gradually slipped away from James Dyson. Three days after Dippin’ Dots filed for bankruptcy protection, a father-son duo named Mark and Scott Fischer reached out to express interest in coming aboard as investors. They owned a family oil concern called Chaparral Energy, and they were planning on divesting from it a bit and putting some of that money to work in other places. To Curt, who had never imagined himself in bankruptcy, who had been getting badgered by the bank for years to sell, the Fischers coming in as fifty-fifty partners was very attractive. If only it were that simple. “There would’ve been a lot of positive reasons to just stick with what I was doing,” Curt said of continuing through the restructuring process that comes with Chapter 11, “but this seemed like not only would the Fischers come in and be partners, they talked about putting more money into the company, growing it faster. They said a lot of the right things.” Before long, many of those right things went wrong. “My deal with them kept getting worse and worse. Instead of being a fifty-fifty partner, they took more of the ownership because they were going to be taking on some of the financial risk,” Curt recalled of the Fischers’ rationale at the time. “And so over about a six-month period, I ended up with really no ownership in the deal. They basically bought the company for the debt and kept me on as CEO for three years.” At the end of the three-year agreement, which included ownership earn-back provisions for Curt, Dippin’ Dots’ new owners chose not to renew the deal. Curt was officially out. It’s incredibly difficult to protect what you’ve built from outside threats. It’s even harder when the threats come from the inside, from partners who gain your trust with promises of assistance at times when you need it most, because they can often feel like guardian angels, like saviors. And how do you defend against someone who has come to save you? Curt didn’t know. “Had I gone through the restructuring process, I probably would’ve had a very good chance of coming out with my company,” he said. But remember: They said a lot of the right things. And unfortunately, none of those things ended up including him. As uncertain as the business world can be, one surefire way to know you’ve built something great that is primed to grow and scale is when your competitors start either copying you or suing you, sometimes both. Or like Jenn Hyman in good times, and Curt Jones in bad ones, when investors come knocking on your door unsolicited, ready to write a check. In both of those instances, as the founder you need to be able to get up on the balcony and look down on the dance floor to know what needs to be protected and how best to protect it. You need to know when to pull the trigger and when to holster the weapons at your disposal. It’s not an easy thing to know or to do, but neither is building a great business. And if you can figure that out, you can figure this out, too. 17 When Catastrophe Strikes Heading into 1982, the pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson was on track for a great year. Profits were up more than 16 percent from the year before, even as the country began to slide into a recession. A multibillion-dollar, multinational conglomerate with more than 140 companies in its portfolio and at least that many products on the market, Johnson & Johnson was thriving in no small part because of the performance of one product: the over-the-counter pain reliever Tylenol. In 1981, after several yearsof steady promotion, Tylenol had managed to capture more than one-third of the analgesic market and more than $500 million in sales, accounting for nearly 20 percent of Johnson & Johnson’s total profits. Executives within the company saw no immediate end to its growth potential. They expected Tylenolto have 50 percent of the market within five years. Then, in the fall of 1982, seven people in the Chicago area mysteriously died within a few days of one another. An investigation soon found that the common denominator among the victims was the recent use of Tylenol products sold in capsule form. Testing and tracking of the Tylenol bottles revealed that they had been tampered with by someone who had purchased a number of bottles from area drugstores and grocery stores, had opened up some of thecapsules, and had then laced the acetaminophen inside with cyanide. News of the poisoning set off a panic. Law enforcement agencies rode the streets of metro Chicago warning residents through loudspeakers not to use the Tylenol in their medicine cabinets. Within two days, the mayor of Chicago was urging people to turn their Tylenol in to their local police and fire departments. Two days after that, she banned Tylenol from the city’s stores altogether. Other cities and states quickly followed suit. The story led the newsevery day for six weeks. Tylenol sales dropped by as much as 80 percent. It was an unqualified disaster for Johnson & Johnson. What followed, however, was a masterwork of leadership and crisis management by Johnson & Johnson’s CEO, James Burke, that is still taught in business schools nearly forty years later. Within days, Burke recalled all Tylenol capsule products nationwide—31 million bottles in total. In addition, he announced that Johnson & Johnson would replace all Tylenol capsules returned by customers with the safer tablet form, free of charge. Within a month, Burke unveiled Johnson & Johnson’s plan to return Tylenol’s capsule products to store shelves, but now in new, “triple-seal” tamper-proof packaging that included a glued box, a plastic neck seal, a foil seal under the cap, and a printed warning to return the product if the foil seal was broken upon opening. This tamper-proof packaging was the first of its kind on the market. One of the big reasons the story remained in the news for six weeks was that Burke was in constant, almost daily, contact with the news directors of every major national media outlet to make sure the public had all the most up-to-date information. Today, these steps taken by Burke seem like standard practice in the face of such corporate calamities. But in 1982, they were anything but common. “Before 1982, nobody everrecalled anything,” one public relations executive who advised Johnson & Johnson during the crisis told the New York Timesin a 2002 anniversary piece subtitled “The Recall That Started Them All.” In fact, Burke faced more resistance to a recall from outside his own boardroom. Boththe FDA and the FBI were against the idea. “The FBI didn’t want usto do it,” Burke told Fortunein November 1982, “because it would say to whomever did this, ‘Hey, I’m winning, I can bring a major corporation to its knees.’ And the FDA argued it might cause more public anxiety than it would relieve.” Still, Burke moved forward.