Jeni described this moment in an NBC News story as one that “lives on in my memoryas a sort of before and after moment. With crisis—when there is a before and after—you go forward in a whole different way than you were before.” Preciselyhow, or if, you go forward depends very much on how quick, decisive, and transparent you are in responding to the moment itself. James Burke and Jeni Britton Bauer were paragons of quick, decisive, transparent leadership in the face of their respective crises. Leadership that saved their businesses in the short run and set them on a path to sustained growth in the long run. Today, Tylenol is a billion-dollar business by itself; Jeni’s Splendid Ice Creams has more than thirty stores and is doing $40 million in sales annually. One need only look at a company whose leaders took the opposite approach, who tried to hide or delay or obfuscate in the face of catastrophic problems, to understand what can happen to a company and the community around it when effective leadership is absent. Beginning in 1996, personal injury attorneys and traffic safety consultants had become aware of a spike in rollover accidents—thirty in total at that point, some fatal—involving the failure of Firestone ATX tires installed on Ford Explorer SUVs. At prolonged highway speeds and high road surface temperatures, tread would separate from the tires’ sidewalls and in some instances send the SUVs into a roll. Under James Burke’s leadership, the immediate recall of all Tylenol capsules in 1982 occurred within days. Jeni Britton Bauer pulled pints of her ice cream off shelves withinhours and closed the company’s stores just as quickly. But the recallof Firestone ATX tires did not happen for anotherfour years, and even then it took an investigation by federal regulators, opened in February 2000, to spur the leaders of Ford and Bridgestone Firestone into action. Fault for the initial failure to act does not sit with Ford or Firestone. Lawyers preparing to bring suit on behalf of accident victims in those first years, 1996 and early 1997 in particular, were trying not to tip their hand to Ford, about the stability of their Explorers, or to Firestone, about the integrity of their tires, so they withheld relevant information from federal regulators, whose investigations would have alerted the automaker and the tire manufacturer to their plans. Moreover, they did not trust regulators to investigate in good faith. They worried that regulators would conduct open-and-shut inquiries—as they had done in the past and that had concluded with no finding of fault—which would neuter the financial potential of the lawyers’ claims if any of their cases came to trial. Still, by the end of 1997, one plaintiff’s attorney said, the “series of lawsuits he filedinvolving tire-related deaths should have alerted Ford and Firestone to the problem.” If that didn’t do it, then the warranty claims that had begun to accumulate on ATX tires by 1998 should have alerted Firestone. And by 1999, Ford didn’t need to be “alerted,” because some of the company’s key leaders had already been informed of Firestone tire failures on Explorers that had been sold in a number of international markets. And yet, nothing happened. Actually, that’s not true: tire accidents continued to happen, and fatalities continued to stack up. When the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) finally launched the first investigation into this issue in early 2000, they reviewed reports on more than 200 tire-related deaths. Almost 95 percent of them occurredafter 1996. Even then, it took another six monthsfor Ford and Firestone to agree to a mass recall of what remained of the nearly 14.5 million affected tires that were still out on the road. It took that long because leaders within both companies were spending most of that time arguing over whose fault those accidents were, and therefore who was liable for the pain and suffering of the victims, rather than taking appropriate steps to endfuture pain and suffering as quickly as possible. Ford blamed Firestone for faulty tire construction. Firestone blamed Ford for, among other things, poor roof design, excessive oversteer, and setting factory tire pressure standards too low. Ford suggested 26 psi; Firestone recommended 30 psi. Ultimately, who was actually to blame mattered only to the victims, and the families of the victims, of the tire-related accidents. What is more relevant for the purposes of understanding how to lead your company through a crisis, is getting a complete picture of what happens when there is a void in leadership. In the case of Ford and Firestone, the picture is bleak. By the end of 2001, when the investigation concluded and the recalls were complete, more than 270 people had died and 800 had been injured in tire-related rollover accidents. Ford would post a $5.5 billion loss for that year, and Bridgestone Firestone would undergo a corporate restructuring that would cost the company $2 billion. As part of these losses and shake-ups, Ford would end up replacing its CEO, Bridgestone Firestone’s CEO and president would both resign, and Firestone would close its plant in Decatur, Illinois, where all the faulty tires had been manufactured, costing the company $200 million and costing 1,500 people their jobs. Eventually, the companies would combine to settle thousands of claims and lawsuits for well over a billion dollars, and Bridgestone Firestone would sever their 100-year working relationship with Ford. In his letter to Ford CEO Jacques Nasser (six months prior to his ouster) announcing the dissolution of their partnership, new Bridgestone CEO John Lampe expressed a sentiment that should, by now, sound familiar: “Business relationships, like personal ones, are built upon trust and mutual respect. We have come to the conclusion that we can no longer supply tires to Ford since the basic foundation of our relationship has been seriously eroded.” There is that word again: “trust.” Now, if only these leaders had shown the same level of trust and respect to the public—to their customers—as they were demanding from their business partner, maybe fewer people would have died and more people would still have had their jobs. Regardless, it is unmistakably clear that when catastrophe strikes a business —whether it’s a storied multinational conglomerate that has been around 100 years or a scrappy upstart just getting its footing at the national level—the only reliable way through that critical “before and after” moment that Jeni Britton Bauer described is through quick, decisive, transparent action that puts people first and public perception second. 18 The Art of the Pivot Modern evolutionary theory has been dominated by two competing schools of thought. There are the gradualists, who, like Charles Darwin, believe that large species-level change occurs as a result of the slow, gradual accumulation of smaller changes over long periods of time. And there are the punctualists, who believe in the “punctuated equilibrium” hypothesis—popularized by Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould in the early 1970s—which argues that species-level change occurs rapidly, in short bursts, with long stable periods in between. The reality is that both schools are probably right. Evolution can happen slowlyor it can happen quickly, and sometimes both kinds of change occur within the lineage of the same species. In fact, we seem to have understood the fundamental truth of this idea as part of the human experience far longer than we’ve understood the particulars of evolution itself. In 1926, forty-five years before the idea of punctuated equilibrium was first articulated, Ernest Hemingway put these words casually into the mouth of Mike Campbell, one of his secondary characters in The Sun Also Rises, when he was asked how he went bankrupt. “Two ways,” Mike said. “Gradually and then suddenly.” Eighty-five years later, inspired by the Hemingway line, John Green wrote in The Fault in Our Stars: “I fell in love the way you fall asleep; slowly, and then all at once.” That same year, the Nobel Prize–winning economist and psychologist Daniel Kahneman published his iconic book, Thinking, Fast and Slow, whose central premise is that the human mind operates on two interdependent systems of thought: one that is slow, calculating, logical, and deliberate; another that is fast, impulsive, and sudden. Evolution. Wealth. Love. Sleep. Thoughts. These are all subject to the gradual, then sudden, nature of change. So, too, is business. And when that change occurs—either to a market or an industry, to consumer tastes or even just to the weather, as it did for Stacy Madison of Stacy’s Pita Chips—an affected founder has to be fully prepared to pivot in response if they want their business to survive and grow. On the streets of downtown Boston in 1996, Stacy Madison and her co-founder, Mark Andrus, were riding the leading edge of the wrap sandwich wave that would crash onto America’s lunchtime shores in the early 2000s. They sold healthy, made-to-order roll-up pita sandwiches, out of a repurposed, refurbished hot dog cart that they named Stacy’s D’Lites. At the time, “pita roll-ups were all over the place,” Stacy said, “but there were very few options. A chicken Caesar was about the extent of what you got. We had about a dozen sandwiches you could order, all with more upscale food choices.” This and the rise of corporate email combined to make them an immediate word-of-mouth success in Boston. “We were right on the edge of the financial district, and somebody would go back to their building and they’d email their office, and then that office would tell another office,” Stacy recalled, “and eventually, there was a line twenty people deep all through lunch.” In an effort to make standing in those long lines more bearable, Stacy started cutting up their leftover pitas at the end of each day and then baking the pieces into different-flavored chips (cinnamon sugar and parmesan garlic to start) that she would hand out for free to customers while they waited for their sandwiches. “Initially, it was just a way to retain our customer base, but people loved it,” Stacy said. “It was kind of like a happy hour, where they didn’t mind waiting for their sandwich because they got to munch on these delicious, free pita chips.” Before long, people were asking Stacy how they might get some of her chips for parties or office meetings. Some suggested she should start producing the chips for sale, as their own individual stand-alone product, which she did, but only on a scale consistent with the volume of the food cart: in baggies tied with gold ribbon and sold for a dollar at the register with the sandwiches. The chips weren’t going to make them rich, Stacy thought at the time, but that wasn’t the point. “It kept them coming back,” she said of this evolution of their offerings and its impact on her customers, “because now they could also buy some for later in the afternoon or for a snack.” As all of this was happening, fall arrived.