Six months later, thefourth -largest investment bank in the country, Lehman Brothers, filed for bankruptcy for similar reasons. It was a move that is generally understood to be the falling domino that tipped markets officially into recession and the world into financial crisis. We cannot point to naive imprudence or delusional exuberance as explanations for these collapses in the same way we might for more recent failures like the blood-testing company Theranos or the e-commerce startup Fab. Bear Stearns was not a young, overzealous giant like the modern-day tech unicorns that operate with mantras such as “Move fast and break things.” Bear Stearns was founded in 1923. Lehman Brothers had been around in some form for more than 150 years. In many ways, you could argue that they helped finance the building of America into the strongest, wealthiest nation the world has ever known, that there was a real purpose behind the services they offered. During the real estate bubble of the early 2000s, however, both firms struggled in vain to resist the pull of mortgage-backed securities on the secondary market—a market so chokedwith greed that commentators in the aftermath of the subprime mortgage crisis took to calling it a casino because they could find no other purpose for it. The participants acted more like gamblers than investors or money managers—taking bigger risks in search of bigger paydays, regardless of what it took to place those bets, which in this case meant getting lenders to increase the number of mortgages they granted to increasingly uncreditworthy borrowers, just so they had more chips to play with. Between them, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers had survived the American Civil War, the Great Depression, both World Wars, and dozens of financial panics. They had helped hundreds of companies and made thousands of millionaires. Yet neither of these venerable firms, in the end, could survive their own greed. The Beatles told us that money can’t buy you love. Rousseau taught us that money doesn’t buy you happiness. The Bible warns us that the love of money is the root of all evil. And these casualties of the subprime mortgage crisis showed us that money can’t be the primary motivating force behind our businesses. A company that is successful and resilient and that acts as a force for good in the world long after you’re gone has a larger purpose— a mission —at its center. One that you, as founder, are responsible for identifying and articulating from the very beginning, then guarding during times of plenty and leaning on during times of difficulty. Founders who approach their businesses with a “mission first” focus tend to be better equipped to handle the lure of unrestrained and manic growth that has damaged or even sunk so many companies with early potential. But having a defined mission is even more valuable when money is scarce or growth is anemic—especially for younger companies—because it gives them a reason to keep on fighting. In contrast, if they are operating with a “money first” mind-set, money’s absence makes it so much easier to abandon what they’re doing and to pivot before they should, to give up on their original idea at the first sign of trouble, or to just plain old quit. Jenn Hyman didn’t endure the sexism, chauvinism, and outright harassment she experienced at the hands of male venture capitalists because she wanted to get rich with Rent the Runway. She is double Harvard (undergraduate and business school). When she was a twenty-two-year-old junior analyst at Starwood Hotels and Resorts right out of college, she came up with the idea for a honeymoon registry that the company still uses and has even expanded. She was the director of business development at the IMG talent management agency. She is a superstar. If all she wanted was to be a millionaire, there would have been a hundred easier ways for her to get there than by going through a gauntlet of forty-to-fifty-year-old rich men who didn’t understand women’s fashion, women’s relationship to their wardrobes, or women, period. Jenn could have easily quit when she hit that withering wall of condescension. She could have agreed with whatever each venture capitalist told her that her business should be if she thought it would get her the money she was trying to raise. But that’s not why Jenn Hyman was in those rooms. She was there for a purpose, witha purpose. “Clothes make you feel a certain way about yourself,” she said in explaining what drives this idea. “You put on an amazing outfit in the morning, and it makes you feel powerful or beautiful or sexy or relaxed or however you want to feel that day, and your entire day can change.” She’d felt that transformative effect from her own experience, but she saw it again and again in women during a number of pop-up shops she and her co-founder, Jennifer Fleiss, put on to test their assumptions and to see how the model for Rent the Runway would work in real time. “I saw the emotional effect that wearing something that made these women feel self-confident had on their demeanor, on their body language, and on how they felt about themselves,” Jenn said. “In the pop-up, I saw girls stripping down, trying on these amazing dresses, and feeling beautiful. They walked with a new sense of confidence, and I really thought this could be a business that isn’t just about offering women a rational or smart choice, but it also can be a business that delivers something emotional, making women feel beautiful every single day.” That’s themission of Rent the Runway. Knowing that what she and Jennifer were trying to build—a company that made women just like them feel strong and empowered and beautiful—gave herthe drive and the will to fight through the indignities of all those investor pitch meetings and to actually reach out to some of those VCs and invite them to pop-ups so they could understand for themselves what she already knew. And they did. Jenn sold more than a couple VCs not just on the business model but also on the business’s larger mission. More than just stoking the flames of a fighting spirit when things aren’t going your way, the mission is what gives your business, and you, direction. It helps you identify opportunities. It helps you categorize and prioritize the field of choices in any situation, from those that advance the interests of the business to those that subvert it or hold it back. This is perhaps the most important thing that a mission does for a young company, because with everything swirling around you—whether it’s product development, funding, hiring, or marketing—it’s very easy to lose your sense of direction both individually as a founder and collectively as the business. Once you lose your sense of direction, the chances of keeping hold of any sense of mission become slim. After all, if you don’t know where you’re going, it’s hard to know why you’re going there. In 2019, I was invited to speak to the folks at Drinkworks, a joint venture between Keurig Dr Pepper and Anheuser-Busch based in the Boston area. They make a machine that is, functionally speaking, a Keurig for cocktails. If you want a Moscow Mule, for example, the machine tells you what size glass to use and how much ice to put in the glass. Then you pop in the pod, fill the reservoir with water, press the button, and out comes a perfectly mixed Moscow Mule at the perfect temperature. It really is a very slick piece of engineering. When I met the team, they were in the early stages of navigating the crucible of growth. They had all their patents filed, they had a full product line, and they’d built a ton of buzz. Their demo video went viral, they got a billion impressions of earned media, they were on the Todayshow, and Jimmy Fallon talked about them on The Tonight Show. But they were struggling to get real traction in the marketplace, because spirits are such a highly regulated industry with rules that change from state to state, and at the time you could buytheir machine only if you lived in Florida or Missouri. Everyone had heard about this thing they were working on, but nobody could buy one, not even people in the state where their company was based. That is not a great place to be as a new company. It can start to feel pretty hopeless as regulatory red tape continues to suffocate your potential. So at the end of my talk to the assembled Drinkworkers, I said, “Let me ask you all a question: What is your mission? When you come in to the office every morning, what are you trying to do?” The first person to speak up said that their mission was to work as a team and to make the best quality product they could. The next person said that they were very mission-oriented and that they were all there to make the best beverage maker in the world, one that would add value to the consumer. Neither response got the blood flowing, either for me or for their co-workers. I received no follow-on responses. Nobody piggybacked on their answers. The energy in the room just sort of flattened. I said, “Okay, what about this: Our mission is to create a product that facilitates gatherings. A product that makes it easy to throw a party, to create community in your own kitchen, in your own living room. Whether you’re a two-income household out in suburbia or you’re young and live in the city and you don’t have space for a traditional bar setup. Drinkworks is for your home, what the water cooler is for your office—the gathering place around which conversations are held, connections are made, and community is built. Oh, and it also makes perfect cocktails.” Now, you might think that sounds like a bunch of branding nonsense. And, admittedly, some of it I did pull out of thin air as I was talking. But a lot of it was stuff I arrived at days before, as I prepared to speak to the team. Sure, they make a machine that makes cocktails. Simple enough. Butwhy they make that machine is different fromwhat they make. The same way that renting designer fashion iswhat Jenn Hyman does at Rent the Runway, but thewhy of it is because she wants to empower her customers to feel strong and beautiful. So what does Drinkworks really do? And why? Those were thequestions I tried to answer for myself, and they were at the heart of the question I posed to them about their mission. The intention being that they needed to arrive at an answer that would offer them constant direction as they navigate the byzantine bureaucracies of individual state governments that stand between their product and full market penetration.