It helped Netflix grow intoa $150 billion media company that has some of the highest employee compensation numbers and lowest turnover rates in the valley and, in less than twenty years, has disrupted the film and television industries in ways not seen since the introduction of sound and color. This “culture first” approach didn’t come naturally to Reed Hastings. At his first company, Pure Software, he did things another way—which is to say, “me first.” Not that he was selfish; just the opposite was true. He did everything, or at least hetried to do everything, himself. “I thought if I couldjust do more sales calls, more travel, write more code, do more interviews, that somehow it would work out better,” he said. In his mind, if there was a problem to be solved or a bug in the code to be fixed, as the founder and CEO of the company, which was his brainchild, he was the obvious and best choice for doing what needed to get done. Eventually, wearing all those hats got to be too much. “I was coding all night, trying to be CEO in the day, and once in a while, I’d squeeze in a shower,” he said. It wasn’t working. Hastings had to figure out a better way. This is when he made the mistake from which the culture deck would eventually be born. Now whenever they had a problem at Pure Software, instead of trying to fix it himself, he tried to implement a process that would prevent the problem from ever happening again. In an interview with Chris Anderson at the TED Conference in 2018, * he called it a “very semiconductor yield orientation,” which isabout as far as he could get from “culture first” without actually trying. The real problem, Hastings said to Anderson, “was that we were trying to dummy-proof the system, and then eventually only dummies wanted to work there. Then, of course, the market shifted, and the company was unable to adapt.” Pure Software was eventually acquired by its largest competitor, and Reed Hastings used the financial windfall from that sale to co-found Netflix, where he made sure not to repeat his process-obsessed, founder-centric mistakes. He was fortunate. Many founders have not been so lucky. Any successful founder will tell you that the impulse to do everything yourself, to believe that only you know best and then to build processes that reflect that belief, is endemic to entrepreneurship and has the potential to be incredibly destructive. When the processes don’t work and your conclusions continually prove wrong, your assumption is that if you just take on a little more and work a little harder, everything will be fine. But that approach can wear you down physically and mentally. Plus, as Reid Hoffman put it in his episode with Hastings, “more work is never the real answer. To succeed as you scale, you have to leverage every person in the organization. And to do that, you have to be very intentional about how you craft the culture.” This may sound like common sense—because it is!—but I’ve been surprised at how often entrepreneurs I’ve encountered make the mistake of trying to do everything themselves as the company begins to grow. What happens in the end is that everything about the business starts to be about the founder rather than the business. This is one of the hardest traps for even the most well-intentioned entrepreneur to avoid, let alone spot. For the longest time in the beginning, it can feel like it’s just you and your idea. The seed gets planted in your mind; you water it with inspiration until it germinates into an idea; you feed it with research until it pokes up through the soil and sees the light of day as a product, which is when it first finds the warmth of attention from an audience; and then, if you’re lucky, it starts to blossom into a full-fledged business. Getting to that point is an all-consuming process. It takes all your time, energy, and focus. It’s all you think about, and after a while theline between you and your idea can start to blur. It becomes difficult to know where you end and the company begins. It becomesimpossible, especially in the leaner, trying times, to fathom that anyone could understand the business or its problems in the way that you can. So when someone on your team levels the charge that you’re making everything about yourself, it almost doesn’t compute. Everything you do, you do for the business. You’ve given everything you have to it. If you could give more, you would. But when you and the business are indistinguishable, when you’ve allowed your identity to merge with the company’s, how does itnot appear to be the case, from the outside at least, that your singular focus on the business is also a singular focus on yourself? It turns out there is a name for founders who fall into this trap. They’re called “monarch CEOs,” according to Professor Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, who studies CEOs at the Yale School of Management. “Their business is defined around them and their life is defined around the business,” he told the Washington Post. The most notorious of these figures in recent years was Dov Charney, the controversial founder of the now-defunct clothing retailer American Apparel. American Apparel was a juggernaut in the clothing business and in the culture during the first decade of the twenty-first century. Their advertisements were edgy and sexually provocative. Their retail stores were on the best streets in all the right cities. They manufactured their clothes out of a large, old factory building in downtown Los Angeles. Their clothes were everywhere and on everyone the entire decade. I still own a couple American Apparel T-shirts and hoodies that I wear in regular rotation. American Apparel’s rise from a domestic clothing manufacturer and wholesaler into an international retail brand was as fast as its fall. They moved into their famous downtown LA factory in 2000. By 2005, they were one of the fastest-growing companies in America. By 2011, the company had more than 250 stores with revenue well north of $500 million. And then, by 2014, amidst a tangle of sexual harassment lawsuits and bad financial deals, Dov was kicked off the board of the company he founded. By 2015, American Apparel was in Chapter 11 bankruptcy. By 2017, the company as Dov Charney knewit was gone: all ties to the founder severed; its intellectual property sold at auction to a competitor, Gildan Activewear, for less than $100 million; its retail stores shuttered. It’s a sad, cautionary tale. Dov Charney was American Apparel. American Apparel was Dov Charney. And that was the whole problem. Everyone saw it. The New York Timessaid, “Charney himself had no other interestsoutside his company. He viewed himself as indispensable.” The Financial Timessaid, “It is almost as if Mr Charney believes that the scandalous behaviour he has so often been accused of is inextricably tied up with the image of his often lauded but deeply unconventional fashion label.” It’s a sentiment Charney would not reject. He told the Financial Timesreporter, “I am a deep part of the brand.” The depth of their synchronicity is where the trouble for American Apparel started. At various points well into the history of the company, Charney was the CEO, the designer, the main photographer, the male fit model, a centerpiece of their advertising, and their biggest liability. Not just legally either. As often happens when a founder loses themselves inside their business, he became a control freak. He had store managers calling him directly. He famously moved into a warehouse that was having some problems and had a shower installed so he could live there twenty-four hours a day monitoring the work. Once, when there was a traffic jam in the parking lot of American Apparel’s LA headquarters, Charney went downstairs and personally directed traffic until it cleared. These might be humble, romantic gestures of a leader willing to do whatever it takes if they weren’t actually a reflection of a founder who had turned into a relentless micromanager as the company grew. “A lot of founders have difficulty making this transition,” said Professor Sydney Finkelstein of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth in the wake of Charney’s ouster from the board. “When you’re a smaller company, micromanagement is not necessarily a terrible thing. It’s when you cross the line and you have to grow, you’ve got to have management talent around you.” American Apparel didn’t have management talent. Or when they did, it didn’t last long. Finkelstein called the place a “revolving door.” Executives at the company described Charney to the New York Timesas “relentlessly controlling.” In the same article, industry analysts commented that American Apparel had “developed a reputation as a place where talented people did not want to work,” to the point where the ensuing brain drain created a power vacuum inside upper management. Upper management—or in the early growth days, the founding team—is critical to the long-term success of a business because that is how the roots of a company’s culture grow and spread. This is something that Reed Hastings began to understand deeply with Netflix around the same time that Dov Charney was turning inward and going the other way. While the culture is certainly a reflection of the founder in the beginning, Hastings would admit to venture capitalist John Doerr in an interview at a Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers CEO Workshop in 2015, “If the cultural rootsare strong, then new leadership is developed in that model, and will often continue the culture.” If the roots are unstable, however, and the leadership is constantly changing, the culture will be, too. By consistently firing or driving away talented leaders, Charney managed to yank out by the roots whatever culture there was to speak of at American Apparel, and in filling the vacuum with himself, the culture of American Apparel became the Cult of Dov. As Dov imploded, so did American Apparel. Which brings me back to Reid Hoffman’s point about succeeding at scale. As a founder, you have to be very intentional and deliberate about how you create the culture of the company. It starts and ends, I have come to understand, with shared values. Brian Scudamore, the founder of 1-800-GOT-JUNK?, figured this out about five years into his junk removal business when it was doing about $500,000 in annual revenue (and growing), with five trucks and eleven employees. His epiphany seems pretty benign. “I realized I wasn’t having fun any longer,” he said, to the point that “I was avoiding spending time with my employees.” There are worse things in the world than a CEO who doesn’t want to hang out with the crew after work, but this was more than that.