“I just had the wrong people,” he said. “I realized that one bad apple spoils the whole bunch, and nine of my eleven staff were bad apples.” He didn’t mean they were badpeople, just bad for the company and the culture he was trying to build. “They didn’t see what I saw,” Brian said. “They were hauling away the junk, taking it to the dump, but they didn’t have that sense of allowing the customer to feel a sense of relief that their junk is gone and they’ve got their space back.” This was Brian’s vision for the company and the values he was trying to build into its culture. The business was supposed to be a caring, affirming pursuit. They were unburdening their customers, liberating them from old baggage that had been weighing them down and closing in around them, sometimes for years. They were adding to their customers’ lives by subtracting from their accumulated possessions. There was an emotional, psychological component to what they were doing at 1-800-GOT-JUNK?. But Brian’s first employees didn’t see that. They were just tossing out garbage, so they felt and acted like garbagemen. They weren’t aligned with Brian’s vision, so he fired them. All of them. In one sitting. And he took full responsibility for it. “As their leader I said, ‘Hey I’ve let you guys down and I’m sorry, but this isn’t going to work out.’” The irony, of course, was that at least for the time being, Brian now had to do all the work himself. “I went from five trucks down to the ability to only run one at a time,” he said. “I was the call center. I did the booking, the dispatch, the junk hauling. I did everything.” He had to go backward, to that familiar Swiss Army knife phase of entrepreneurship, in order to move forward in the right direction and to lay down the roots of a culture that, twenty-five years later, is responsible for $250 million in annual revenue across hundreds of franchises in every major metropolitan area in Canada, Australia, and the United States. “When you build a company, it’s all about people,” Brian said. “Find the right people and treat them right.” How do you do that? You start by looking for people who share your values. That’s how Alice Waters built Chez Panisse, perhaps the most important restaurant in modern American gastronomy. Opened in Berkeley, California, in 1971, in an old arts and crafts house that used to be a plumber’s shop just south of the UC Berkeley campus, Chez Panisse became the birthplace of California cuisine. Itwas the beginning of what today we call farm-to-table cuisine. Alice’s singular focus on ingredients rather than technique changed the way cooks approached food and restaurant patrons approached dining. Not surprisingly, this wasn’t Alice’s goal for Chez Panisse. She only wanted to replicate what she’d been doing in her home and the homes of her friends—creating a space where people could gather and talk, and where they could eat very simple, very delicious food. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, when the idea for Chez Panisse was taking shape, these notions could not have been any more countercultural. This was the golden age of canned foods and ready-to-eat meals. Fast-food franchises were popping up everywhere. Two years after Chez Panisse opened, Swanson would launch its Hungry-Man dinners. By 1975, there would be 1 million microwaves in American homes. When Alice spoke to people about her idea, the possibility that they would come out, in 1971, and actuallypay for simply prepared French-inspired dishes such as pâté en croûte, duck with olives, and apple tart (the first night’s menu) was insane. Even more nuts was that Alice and her partners, they didn’t want your money! “I would have been ashamed if I had been looking to make money,” Alice told me. “Nobody who was involved with this project expected to make money. We hoped to. But we didn’t expect it. And we almost didn’t want it. This was a labor of love.” That’s what you need from the people around you when you’re growing a business of any kind. “Everybody who worked at Chez Panisse was passionate about the same idea,” Alice said. It’s how she hired, and why she employed so many of her friends in the beginning. “Because when you’re working in a business fifteen hours a day, you want to be with people you like and with whom you share values.” That shared sense of purposeand values, more so than money or profitability, is also what explains the longevity of Chez Panisse—it’s still open today—in an industry where the average life span of an independent restaurant is five years, and 90 percent of them close in the first year. Alice isn’t trying to become a billionaire. She isn’t trying to create Alice, Inc., and franchise her name and face all over the globe. She doesn’t own any other restaurants. “I couldn’t ever imagine flying around the world to visit my restaurants,” she told me. Her goals, like her food, are much simpler. “I’ve always wanted a place that I wanted to be in and that was constantly growing and changing,” Alice said of her decision not to franchise, but rather to keep Chez Panisse as a single restaurant, to expand its influence in other ways. “And that happened when different people brought ideas into the restaurant. That’s why I really feel like it’s important that you find people who share your values. When they do, they’re the ones who breathe life into the business.” That’s the whole purpose of the Netflix culture deck, when you think about it. Netflix wants to find people who believe in the ideas expressed on those 130 plainly designed presentation slides, who share the same values as people, as an organization, as a culture. They want the next generation of leaders who can extend what Reed Hastings and his co-founder Marc Randolph launched in the spring of 1998 far into the future. It’s a simple notion—to create a lasting culture by building a business with a shared set of values—but it is one plenty of founders struggle with, because they allow themselves to get buried in the minutiae of the day-to-day. Or they lose themselves inside the business entirely. Or, worse, they come to believe that only they know what the company needs (which is usually just more of them). Whereas Reed Hastings published a training tool to share with the world and now aspires to go entire quarters without making a single decision, far too many founders are tempted to go the Dov Charney route: have a shower built in the warehouse and sleep with a walkie-talkie on your chest—if you sleep at all. The scary part is that when you’re in the thick of things, it is much easier to become a Dov Charney than a Reed Hastings. At the very end of my interview with Tristan Walker in Washington, DC, in 2019, I asked him what the one thing was he wished he knew fifteen years earlier that he knows now. His answer was simple and clear: “Know your values.” But don’t just know them, write them down. That’s what he did, three weeks before raising the first round of funding that turned his idea for a shaving solution for men of color into a multimillion-dollar business with his name on the door—Walker & Company. There were six of them: courage, inspiration, respect, judgment, wellness, and loyalty. What makes this list remarkable isn’t that he could rattle off the values like the names of his children; it is that they existed so clearly in the mind of a thirty-six-year-old who, for most of his life, had the singular goal of becoming wealthy. Growing up in Queens, then earning a scholarship to the Hotchkiss School, one of the most prestigious boarding schools in America, Tristan saw every day the difference between being rich and being wealthy. He witnessed the doors that true wealth could open, and he wanted that for himself and for his family. From the moment he graduated high school, that goal drove every decision he made: what he majored in at college (economics), where he went to graduate school (Stanford business), where he interned (Twitter), and what companies he worked for after he graduated into the real world (Foursquare and Andreessen Horowitz). If he hadn’t been careful, Tristan could have very easily found himself on a self-absorbed Dov Charney–style trajectory. Instead, he found a problem to solve “for people who looked like me,” as he put it. He developed a set of solutions that could become a business that employed a lot of people, if he just cultivated the seed of the idea and tended to the soil with enough care to make sure the idea blossomed and flourished. Almost immediately, Tristan’s goals changed. Instead of being singular and self-focused, they were multiple and communal. He recognized that for a business to last 100 years, which was one of his new goals, it can’t be about you, because “ youdon’t scale.” Only your idea, and your story, and your values do. As long as you know them and share them. “Knowing your values gets you on the same page with your employees. They get you on the same page in this noisy world with your consumers, but more importantly they give you your purpose,” Tristan said. “Without knowing your values, you’re going to makedecisions that are inconsistent, and you have to have consistency to inspire your sanity.” I would argue that you also need consistency to inspire your people. And there is nothing more consistent than a set of clear values written down on the page for everyone to see. Just ask Reed Hastings—or, better yet, ask his 7,000 employees. 21 Think Small to Get Big When we moved our family from Washington, DC, to the Bay Area, one of the first things we did was to take the ferry from Jack London Square in Oakland across the bay to San Francisco and spend the day walking around. My boys wanted to do the typical San Francisco stuff—watch the sea lions at Fisherman’s Wharf, ride a cable car down Powell Street, visit Alcatraz—but as we disembarked at the iconic Ferry Building, walked out onto the Embarcadero, and looked up Market Street toward downtown, I was taken by a view of the city I’d never seen before as a visitor when I’d come in from the airport or across the Bay Bridge. To one side was the San Francisco we know from movies: the two identical beige buildings of One Market Plaza; the Transamerica Pyramid; the four towers of the Embarcadero Center, which look like Earth reached up to give the sign of the horns using buildings instead of fingers.