To the other side was a patchwork of construction cranes and glass towers, alternately suspended in the sky and rising up from the ground like so many stalactites and stalagmites. A number of the buildings were residential condo complexes, but they were anchored by a sixty-one-story bullet-shaped building reminiscent in both shape and visually transformative effect of London’s Gherkin. It’scalled the Salesforce Tower, so named for the massive cloud-based software company that occupies it and a number of other smaller buildings on Mission Street. I was looking at a view of a city in flux. A city undergoing a historic seismic shift, the fault lines of which ran in parallel right down Mission and Market Streets. To the south were the headquarters of many of the tech companies that hit the mother lode during the internet gold rush of the early 2000s and became the dominant forces in their respective spaces: Salesforce, Twitter, Instacart, Airbnb, Pinterest, Zynga, Trulia, DocuSign, Lyft, Uber. To the north were landmarks to the legacy companies that actually built the city—Ghirardelli Chocolate, Wells Fargo, Levi Strauss—and got their start during theactual gold rush in the late 1840s and 1850s, striking it rich not by mining for gold, but by operating on the periphery servicing the interests of those who did. Domingo Ghirardelli immigrated to California from Italy in 1849 after hearing about the discovery of gold at Sutter’s Mill. He tried his hand at mining, like just about everyone who came to California those first years, and he failed rather miserably, also like most of them. With mercantile roots, he gave up his fantasy of finding gold and decided instead to open a store selling mining supplies and sweets in Stockton, a town at the midpoint on the road from San Francisco to the nearest mining claims in the Sierra foothills. Over the next few years, as that store flourished, he opened a second one in San Francisco, then a hotel, and when that burned down in 1851, he built a stand-alone confectionery that would become the Ghirardelli Chocolate Company. In 1852, as San Francisco began to explode with growth, Henry Wells and William Fargo came out from New York to form Wells, Fargo & Co. to service the banking needs of miners and merchants alike. They opened locations all over gold country within a couple years. Their focus on keeping money in the region and serving local clients, rather than sending deposits back east to New York as was the habit of many banking interests, not only earned them loyalty and a reputation for dependability, but it also helped them survive the panic of 1855, which wiped out virtually all of their competition. By hyper-focusing on San Francisco, on the miners and merchants who were building it up, Wells, Fargo became the only game in town for a while, which allowed them to consolidate even more control of the local banking business and then expand rapidly outward into other areas from there. Levi Strauss took a page out of both the Ghirardelli and Wells, Fargo playbooks and moved to San Francisco from New York in 1853 to open a store selling dry goods to prospectors and the burgeoning local population. Quickly he began wholesaling to other stores in the area—dry goods, fabric, mining supplies—before finally getting into what we now call blue jeans in the early 1870s. That occurred when a tailor in Reno, Nevada, bought some of his denim, figured out a way to fashion it into more durable pants by using metal rivets on the pockets and the zipper, and then asked Strauss to front the money to file patents on the new design, making them partners and eventually multimillionaires. It has struck me on more than a few occasions when talking to founders that taking Levi’s route through a gold rush is far cheaper, much less risky, and potentially just as profitable as going all in to mine for the mother lode itself—or to chase a unicorn, in the language of modern-day entrepreneurship. Just think about the hundreds of millions of venture dollars required to launch the handful of tech companies lining Mission Street, filling the office space south of Market. Uber alone has raised $20 billion in the ten years since its founding, and yet for every Uber, there are a hundred Uber competitors or “Uber for _________” companies that never made it. The possibility of succeeding in that kind of capital-intensive, winner-take-all environment has always been much lower than in finding a small niche related but adjacent to a massive boom and building a business there. That was certainly the conclusion Chet Pipkin, the founder of the consumer electronics maker Belkin International, arrived at in the early 1980s when he was a young student at UCLA. It was the beginning of the very first tech gold rush—the personal computing revolution—and Chet was learning everything he could about computers in search of a good business idea. He thought about becoming a PC maker for a minute, though that was “pretty quickly dismissed,” he said, because “the amount of capital it would have taken would have been more than I could have imagined, and there seemed to be a lot of people going after that space.” By 1982, there were already a half dozen PC manufacturers with a machine on the market, including IBM and Commodore. By 1984, there would be four more, including Apple. That’s a lot of big-time competition for a twenty-two-year-old living at home with his parents in South Los Angeles. And IBM wasn’t just a computer maker; they had built and programmed the computing engine behind much of the Apollo moon landing mission thirteen years earlier. The Commodore 64 had the best graphics and sound that anyone had ever seen or heard to that point. And, well, we all know what would become of Apple. This was not a business you could just dip your toe into and not expect to lose your shirt. That was not of much concern to Chet, however, because one of his earliest realizations, as he worked to understand the nascent personal computing industry, was that there would be gaps in the marketplace that someone like him could fill. “It’s inevitable,” he thought, “that there were going to be things to do that people were not thinking about. I didn’t know exactly what those were, but I knew that was the kind of thing I was looking for.” He found his niche by immersing himself in the scene and hanging out at local computer stores. “I just watched,” he remembered, “and one of the things that was impossible to miss, almost from day one, was folks who would buy a PC and a printer and then they would say, ‘Well, how do I make this work?’” Today, that question feels like an anachronism. If you have a computer and a printer that are reasonably new, you plug them in and turn them on, and they find each other over Wi-Fi and connect. Things could not have been more different in 1982. “Computers were being made by all these different manufacturers,” Chet explained. “They had different connectors on them; the printers had different connectors on them. It was an absolute nightmare for folks who were just trying to get this stuff to work for them.” It was like the early days of the railroad in Great Britain and the United States, when train tracks were of different widths in different parts of the country and railcars had different linkage mechanisms depending on who manufactured and who owned the cars. For the entire giant network to function and reach its vast economic potential, all those systems had to be either standardized or made compatible, which is eventually what the railroad companies did. They agreed on a standard set of railway gauges and widths, then started deploying a set of coupling mechanisms to more easily join their railcars, based on the 1873 design of an enterprising American inventor named Eli Janney. The opportunity Chet Pipkin saw when he watched customers struggle to make their machines connect was the chance to be the Eli Janney of personal computing. “There was no missing that the big void here was providing an elegant tool to make this stuff work together the way that it should,” he said. It was an opportunity that, in his words, “looked even more compelling and more exciting than making the hardware.” So that is the path Chet took. With the help of his brother and his father, who was a great toolmaker, he pulled together a makeshift workbench in his parents’ garage using a four-by-eight-foot piece of plywood and a laminate overlay, then set to frankensteining a bunch of wires and prefabricated connectors into cables that allowed the first generation of PCs to work with the first generation of printers. They weren’t pretty, by Chet’s own admission, but they functioned, and they very quickly found customers, even if he had to go out and hustle to find buyers in the beginning. Eventually, though, customers started finding him. When he ran Belkin’s first ad in Computer Dealermagazine, they got an order from the student store at Carnegie Mellon University for 100 cables that went from the parallel port on an IBM PC to an Epson printer. “It was one of our biggest orders ever,” Chet said of their early progress in 1982, at which point the only constraint on their success, as far as he was concerned, was their ability to make cables quickly enough. Chet solved that problem by hiring a coupledozen people, who helped him grow sales to $180,000 by the end of 1983, Belkin’s first full year in business. That kind of early, explosive success from a small group working out of a garage in a young industry that shows tremendous growth potential is not to be dismissed. Which begs the question: Why wouldn’t (or didn’t) the big players in the space identify this opportunity the way Chet did and then move to capture all that value at a scale Belkin wouldn’t be able to for a number of years? The answer, according to Chet, is one of the reasons that finding and owning a small niche is such a valuable strategy for an entrepreneur during a boom time. “IBM had their hands full just making enough PCs,” Chet explained. “For years there were just not enough of them getting built, and they had no idea what printer any given small business or consumer was going to choose anyway, so they wouldn’t even know which one thing to make.” His point was that, on the one hand, IBM and other PC makers like them had too much work to do in their principal business to care about or even understand something they felt was too small of an opportunity.