On the other hand, this niche was the “perfect size and just the right amount of work” for a company like Belkin International. It helped, of course, that Chet was not a threat to PC makers. He was not trying to take market share from them. If anything, the products he chose to manufacture as time went along and he became more established were bellwethers for the PC makers he was really trying to help. After all, the entire goal of his business was to make more PCs work with more peripheral devices for more consumers. So if Belkin decided to make fewer cables for your machines than it did for your competitors’, it was an indication that it might be time to look in the mirror and examine your business. It was in this capacity, as a manufacturer of cables and other connectivity devices, that Chet found his Janney coupler; his blue jeans and pickaxes and shovels; his banking services. In carving out a space for himself on the fringe of the PC revolution, and in providing some of the fuel for it to go mainstream in the process, he was able to follow in the footsteps of men like Eli Janney, Levi Strauss, Domingo Ghirardelli, and Henry Wells and William Fargo. In 2018, Chet hithis own version of the mother lode when he sold Belkin to a subsidiary of the Chinese conglomerate Foxconn for $800 million. Interestingly, as I listened to Chet tell the story of Belkin’s improbable rise from his parents’ garage in 1982 to the shelves of every Apple Store today, my mind was drawn back to one of the first interviews I ever conducted for How I Built This, with Herb Kelleher. Specifically, it was Herb’s constant focus on not trying to do too much, and its direct relationship to Southwest Airlines’ unlikely growth into an international air carrier, that made Chet’s story resonate so strongly with me. “I wrote a letter to our employees about my ten foremost concerns for the next decade of Southwest Airlines,” Herb told me of an early critical phase in the company’s history, “and number one was that we ignore competition and get complacent.” Except he meant it in a way that most people wouldn’t expect. Herb had endured years of larger regional air carriers in Texas trying to smother Southwest in the cradle, to sue the airline out of existence before it had ever taken flight. Once he survived that and got Southwest off the ground, he watched over the next thirty years as major airline after major airline either spent themselves into bankruptcy or mismanaged themselves into unfavorable mergers. TWA, Eastern, Swissair, Aloha, Pan Am, Continental, Northwest, America West. Herb most definitely did not want Southwest Airlines to meet the same fate. “So I used the line ‘Think small and act small and we’ll get bigger. Think big and act big and we’ll get smaller,’” he told me of that letter to his employees. He cautioned them not to think or act like the bigger airlines; not to be enamored of what itappeared they had; not tocompete with them on their terms. Instead, if Southwest just stuck to what they did best, he believed, if they operated within their means and according to their founding principles, if they stayed in their lane, everything would work out, and major opportunities would present themselves. In short, if they thought small and acted small, the sky would be the limit. This is really where the most valuable lessons and inspiring stories are to be found from the technological and industrial gold rushes that have pockmarked modern business history. They’re notwith Cornelius Vanderbilt or Jay Gould or any of the other railroad tycoons from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. They’re not with IBM or Apple or any of the giant software companies that rose to prominence in the 1980s and 1990s. And they’re not with Uber or Salesforce or Twitter or any of the other tech companies born out of the internet boom in the early 2000s, whose headquarters line San Francisco’s Mission Street and define one side of the boundary between where we are going and where we have been. If you want to find an example of an entrepreneur or an innovator who built a sturdy, profitable business connected to a booming industry, you could do far worse than the stories of Levi Strauss, Eli Janney, Chet Pipkin, and even Herb Kelleher. Not only are they a testament to the profitability of a small niche that can, like a vein of gold, appear only an inch wide but run a mile deep. They are also evidence of the possibility for that niche to be a foothold from which an ambitious founder might stake their claim on what could very well be the next gold rush. 22 Manage Partnership Tensions Companies are like families. From the outside they all look similar and sometimes sort of boring, but on the inside they’re all uniquely complicated. They have very specific ways of doing things that seem peculiar to anyone else. They have rules and traditions and terminology that mean a lot to them and define significant aspects of how they function. They also have weird internal rivalries and quarreling cliques. They have baggage and secrets and skeletons in their closets. And with all of that shared history, they end up constructing a shared identity; a common banner they can wrap themselves in during good times or rally around through tough stretches, whether they have to come together to accomplish a mission or respond to a threat. The people holding that banner, directing operations, charting a course for the future—those are the leaders. In a family, it’s the parents. In a startup, it’s the founders. And just as with parents in any normally complicated family, relationships between founders can get complicated. They can get strained, even break down. Founders can love each other, care deeply for each other, want nothing more than for their business to succeed, and still they will fight. Maybe they don’t see eye to eye on how to run things; maybe their leadership styles are at odds; maybe their personal goals change. Or maybethey’re just exhausted from working an entrepreneur’s schedule year after year. Whatever the case, as a founder you have to be ready for the honeymoon phase of your partnership to end, for the romance of entrepreneurship to fade away and leave the mundane obligations of running a business in its place. That will be less sexy and less exciting, as tends to happen with anything that becomes part of a daily routine, but you will still have to do the work to make it work, while also being prepared to make difficult decisions if the work isn’t enough. Decisions that are perhaps the most difficult you’ve ever made in your life, but also the most important for the long-term viability of this thing you’ve worked so hard to build. Katrina Lake had to make a decision earlier than most. In the summer of 2012, less than eighteen months into the life of the personal styling service Stitch Fix, she and her co-founder, Erin Morrison Flynn, split. Flynn was a buyer for J.Crew and the wife of one of Katrina’s college friends. They founded Stitch Fix in February 2011 on the strength of that connection and a shared interest in disrupting the fashion industry, but it quickly became apparent that they didn’t share much else with regard to the trajectory of the company. “You can be in a place where you really, deeply care for somebody and at the same time you see things so differently that you just can’t see it from the other person’s seat,” Katrina said. Their differences in vision and opinion, unfortunately, resulted in difficult litigation that took longer to resolve than Katrina and Erin were officially co-founding partners. That’s a place no founders ever expect to find themselves in when they embark on building their business, which is why every founder story is different. When I touched on the unwinding of their relationship in my interview with Katrina, she was naturally circumspect, but she described the experience in what will become familiar language. “It’s like in a divorce when they talk about irreconcilable differences,” she said, “feeling like you’ve been in it with somebody and you just can’t see the future in the same way.” What else can you do in a situation like Katrina and Erin’s? If the business is working even though you’re not? You have to at least consider the possibility of a split. Because without a resolution, the relationship may become increasingly toxic. That’s why it’s so important to manage any significant tension with your co-founder properly. It can be a momentum killer. It can eat at the foundation of your company culture, and if it gets bad enough, it can cause your employees to question everything they are working toward. To make sure that doesn’t happen, you either have to squash petty power plays and surrender your ego, or accept that your partnership has reached the end of its utility and find a way to consciously uncouple. In an ideal world, of course, founders don’t just have two choices. They often find a third way and work through their problems, for the sake of both the business and their relationship. That is what Eric Ryan and Adam Lowry did when they ran into a rough patch trying to expand Method into the trailblazer in eco-chic household cleaning products that would eventually generate more than $80 million in sales and be sold to the Belgian consumer products manufacturer Ecover. The tension started around 2008, when they developed a new line of personal care products called Bloq that failed miserably. “It was like a plane crash. It’s not one thing that goes wrong. It’s like ten things that go wrong. And that’s exactly what we did there,” Eric said of the shower-related products that retailers liked but consumers seemed to have no time for. “It was nailed to the shelf, it didn’t move.” Method took a pretty big hit as a result of the failure, and not just financially. “It was in the low millions that we lit on fire,” Adam said. “The bigger thing, though, with a product failure is the reputational risk. The customers—meaning, for us, a retailer—were not excited about that. It’s something that you have to dig yourself out of.” In the military there is a saying: “Proper preparation prevents poor performance”—the five Ps. In business you might say, “Product plane crashes produce partnership problems,” because that’s what happened with Adam and Eric. “There was a time for a couple of years where we were at each other’s throats,” Adam said in the aftermath of the Bloq fiasco.