“We both had the capacity to take the highest road for the kids and then also the employees,” Susan said of their ultimate decision to keep the business going. “With all the people that we were responsible for, it was a very conscious choice.” That doesn’t mean it was easy, of course, for anyone. “The first two years were tough, and certainly the first six months were the hardest. Absolutely our employees said that. Yet it’s always felt like the right thing to do,” Brad said of their decision to divorce but continue running the company together. It wasn’t like their divorce came as much of a shock to their employees anyway. “We had side conversations first with folks, then we had a meeting about it, but it wasn’tnot obvious either. We don’t really hide our honesty from each other.” Employees, like children, know when something is wrong, even if everything else around them is going well. And they can manage for a while. Eventually, though, the unresolved issues, unmanaged tension, and unspoken conflicts begin to reveal themselves in the form of internal dysfunction and suboptimal business performance. I think if you asked Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian whether their deteriorating relationship leading up to their exit from Reddit in 2009 sowed the seeds for the chaos that burst to the surface among the site’s users in 2014 and 2015, they would reluctantly agree that you couldn’t separate the two things. Similarly, you can draw a straight line between the personality conflicts between Andy Dunn and Brian Spaly and the fight within Bonobos for the soul of the company. You can keep the lid on a pressure cooker for only so long. Eventually, all that pressure has to go somewhere. And if you don’t turn down the heat or press the release valve, all you’re really doing is setting the timer on a scalding explosion. Susan and Brad’s decision to divorce was a release of years of built-up pressure that actually enabled EO Products to grow and to thrive in a better, faster way. It also gave them the personal space they needed to figure out who they were individually and to build a healthier, more robust relationship as friends, parents, and business partners. “We did the best we could when we were married,” Brad said, “and the depth of our relationship is much more meaningful now than we were able to get to when we were married.” “It also made our roles very clear in terms of what we were accountable for at work,” Susan added, “and then our care for each other and similar values supported that.” “It doesn’t mean we get along all the time now. It’s not that wedon’t get into fights,” Brad said of their current partnership, “but we do tend to get out of fights pretty quickly. You know, of all the lessons I have learned in talking to co-founders, the extent to which nearly all of them have gone through extended periods of profound difficulty with each other, and the way so many of them used the language of marriage and family to describe how they navigated those periods, was among the most enlightening and empowering for me. And it’s probably because I identify with the parallels as a husband, father, and entrepreneur. Thinking like a parent and a partner is a skill every aspiring founder should cultivate in preparation for the challenges they will face with potential co-founders, because they will invariably pour as much of their heart and soul and energy and money into building their business as they will into starting a family. If you would gladly sacrifice and do whatever it takes to protect your family, why would you not do the same for your business? 23 Know Thyself When I left Weekend All Things Consideredto become the host of TED Radio Hourin 2012, more than a few of my friends in the news business thought I’d lost my mind. I was the host of a very popular show that aired on 800 radio stations across the country every week. And I was giving that up to dowhat? Apodcast? Who listens to podcasts? It was as if I had decided to leave all my worldly possessions behind and walk alone into the wilderness. They were right to be skeptical. We were still a few years away from the podcast boom that began to swallow traditional radio in the second half of the 2010s. People listened to podcasts, but not nearly as much as they do today. There were no major podcast apps. There were no podcast millionaires. There was iTunes and ads for Stamps.com, and that was about it. What my colleagues didn’t understand was that while I was technically changing jobs and leaving the news, I wasn’t really changing what I did or who I was. In fact, I was doing and becomingmore of those things that were authentically me. I may have worked in journalism for more than a decade, but I never felt like a “newsman.” I was a storyteller, and TED Radio Hour —then How I Built Thisand Wow in the Worldand the other shows I would create with Spotify and Luminary—would allow me to more fully express that core part of my identity in a way that news, by its nature, never could. Podcasting let me be the most genuine version of my personal and professional self, and it unexpectedly put my career into ascendancy as a result. Embracing my storytelling sensibilities helped put my production company on the same track. It guided me to, and through, every decision in every phase of our growth—whom to hire, whom to profile on the show, what to say no to—and it also kept us from falling off the right track. When growth begins to accelerate, it’s even more critical to know who you are as a founder and who you are as a company. That understanding helps point you in the right direction when you have opportunities to pursue lots of different things. It’s a constant reminder of what business you’re actually in, which is something that is surprisingly easy to forget or lose sight of once your business starts to expand, evolve, and change shape. Believe me, I’ve been there, and so have most of the founders I’ve interviewed. This is the issue Andy Dunn faced during the first five tumultuous yet thriving years of Bonobos. In that time, he’d founded the company with his Stanford business school roommate, Brian Spaly, and moved the entire operation to New York City to be closer to fabric suppliers and the fashion PR industry. They’d built sales from $10,000 in October 2007, their first month in operation, to $7 million in annual sales in 2009. In between, however, Andy had split from Brian (Brian went on to found Trunk Club), then raised two rounds of angel money, only to lose his first and most trusted investor, thanks to an overly aggressive valuation and a condescending “you either get it or you don’t” kind of pitch email he sent to prospective investors. In 2010, Andy bounced backfrom what he called the worst year of his life to wrap up an $18 million Series A fundraise, which he used to expand offerings and operations over the next few years. In the midst of all this Shakespearean startup drama, there was also, in Andy’s words, “a battle over the soul of the company.” Were they a technology company, or were they a retail menswear company? The answer, of course, is that they were both, but it was figuring that out for themselves “which was the challenge,” Andy conceded. The early failure of Bonobos to overcome this challenge, to reconcile and converge these two sides of the company into a single unified brand, was, by Andy’s own admission, his fault as the company’s CEO. “If I had been a better leader, maybe I could have figured it out,” he said. But his wasn’t strictly a strategic leadership issue, which Andy also acknowledged, because the cracks had first begun to show in himpersonally as he worked to know and to better understand himself. “I was a confused person,” Andy told me in the fall of 2018. “I got depressed, and I kind of had to fake it at work that I was doing okay. It was super tough to navigate.” He also struggled with direct conflict and confrontation. “I valued harmony over the difficult conversations until the situation became really difficult,” he said, “and then I’d take it on.” Combined with the normal stress and insecurity that come with running a successful startup—one that wasn’t even his idea to begin with * —these personal issues started to steer Andy toward poor decisions, including fighting with his co-founder in front of the team, which exacerbated the company’s identity crisis. “I thought we were doing a pretty good job of talking in private and then presenting a unified front,” Andy said. But then he got a call from one of their investors, who told him he’d been hearing things about their fighting. “I thought, ‘Wow, how did that happen? What do I do?’” The investor told him that he and Brian had to get to the bottom of their issues. They had to resolve whatever was dividing them and to figure out a way to work together more effectively. They had to stop fighting in front of the kids, as it were. Andy saw things a little more starkly. For him (to borrow fromthe language of marriage in the previous chapter), they were beyond couples therapy and trial separations. “We needed a clear CEO,” he said, “so it was more, ‘Should I leave or should Brian leave?’” You could say the battle for the soul of Bonobos actually began there, within Andy, then radiated outward to include Brian—his friend, roommate, classmate, and co-founder. Eventually, Brian would leave. “He was unbelievably dignified about the whole thing,” Andy said. But that didn’t end the battle, because Andy continued to make missteps. First, he gave a company-wide presentation titled “23,” based on the Hall of Fame speeches of two very different athletes, Ryne Sandberg (formerly of the Cubs) and Michael Jordan (formerly of the Bulls), who wore the number 23 for their respective teams in Chicago, where Andy grew up. Sandberg’s speech focused on respect. Jordan’s was notoriously hostile and retributive, all about settling scores and “being better than everyone and dominating everyone.” Andy compared and connected the speeches thematically in an attempt to inspire his troops toward a more unified purpose. On the one hand, “we need to all have respect for all the people here and the sacrifices they are making,” he said. On the other hand, like Jordan, people needed to do more to achieve, to grow, to kill the competition.