“It was kind of convoluted,” Andy admitted, “and it totally didn’t work.” The troops didn’t feel an increased sense of esprit de corps. Instead, they felt demoralized. “It was the opposite of what you want to see from a leader,” he said. “You want to be recognized for how hard you’re working, not scolded that you’re not working hard enough.” What made the presentation a real flash point, though, wasn’t just that everyone inside Bonobos felt like they were busting their butts to make the company a success (rightly, in Andy’s estimation); some also thought they were busting their buttsmore than others. “The folks who did all the customer service and fulfillment were working around the clock. The apparel folks were working the second most. And there was a perception that the engineering team, who were getting paid the most, were not working as hard,” Andy explained. This complaint, which went both spoken and unspoken by the retail-sideemployees, was actually what motivated Andy to create the “23” presentation. And it is why the product folks took it so personally. It felt to them like a slap in the face, sincethey were the oneskilling themselves to bring truly innovative menswear options to market, while the engineers were strolling in late, leaving early, and earning sometimes three times as much for their trouble. In short, grumblings indicating poor morale were bubbling up from the ranks. Andy’s big miscalculation was magnified by the divide between the tech side and the fashion-product-retail side of the business, but it was grounded fundamentally inanother identity issue altogether. This was brought squarely to his attention after the presentation by a brilliant, ex-Zappos engineer whom Andy and Brian had hired early on to lead the tech team. “He called me and said, ‘I wish you could have seen the spirit of joy that Tony Hsieh created at Zappos. I wish you could see the way a spirit of positivity actually creates a much better work environment at a startup.’” What this engineer had landed upon without realizing it was the disconnect between the type of business Bonobos was in and the type of businesses Andy had come from. In the five years before going to business school, Andy had worked in consulting with Bain and in private equity with a firm out of Chicago called Wind Point. He was assigned to projects for a cardboard packaging company and a South American airline. He assisted with the Lands’ End acquisition by Sears. These were industries with notoriously thin margins where companies hired consultants or sold to private equity firms because they were ruthless about efficiencies and laser focused on profits. In effect, Andy had come from the opposite of the startup world and was unconsciously bringing that cutthroat sensibility to his leadership of Bonobos. The engineer’s message was “a wake-up call,” Andy said. “This isn’t consulting or private equity, where people are motivated by fear. This is a startup, where people are motivated by joy. It’s about creating something versus making sure that you’re working hard enough to get to the next rung.” This realization would turn out to be more than a wake-up call. First, the ex-Zappos engineer’s point wasn’t just a friendly piece ofadvice. It was his parting thought. He quit, leaving the tech team unguided and the whole business potentially underpowered. At the time, the website was the only entry point for Bonobos customers. If that broke down, it could be incredibly costly. So Andy started to recruit a similar level of programming talent to New York. Or I should say, hetried. This was 2010. The economy was coming out of the recession, and a new wave of technological innovation, in the form of mobile devices and mobile apps, was about to arrive and upend large swaths of the industry. For an experienced programmer or engineer, the big action and the opportunities were unequivocally in Silicon Valley. It would take a lot to lure an engineer with a Zappos-level pedigree to Manhattan for the opportunity to sell pants on the computer. Whatever Andy was offering in those first months after their lead engineer left clearly wasn’t enough. For a while, the business subsisted on the work of outside technology consultants, but eventually the challenges this arrangement presented outweighed the benefits. Near the end of 2011, Andy finally decided to go where the talent was instead of trying to coax it 3,000 miles across the continent. He hired a Netflix engineering director named Michael Hart to be chief technology officer, then installed him in a brand-new Palo Alto office that Bonobos opened at the beginning of 2012. As well-intentioned as this decision was, “it turned out to be a catastrophic error,” Andy said. It had the effect of taking the tribal instincts already present between the two sides of the business and institutionalizing them—not just widening the internal divide between tech and retail, but deepening each side’s sense that they represented the core of the business. “The New York office saw this as a menswear retailer,” he explained. “The Palo Alto office saw this as the beginning of a multibrand technology platform that they were going to power with technology.” And both sides believed they had the strongest claim to the company’s finite resources, which were being mademore finiteby the day, not surprisingly, as a result of the cost of maintaining and managing two locations instead of one. With dedicated offices on opposite sides of the country beginning in 2012, each group now had their own house to protect—as though Bonobos was Hogwarts and they were Slytherin and Gryffindor!—and seemingly very little incentive to cooperate. “People were not seeing eye to eye at all,” Andy said. “They just weren’t interacting enough to resolve their differences about what the strategy was and what the company was about.” But that raises the question: What exactlywas Bonobos about? Because this kind of thing that Andy Dunn and his team were experiencing doesn’t often happen in a company that knows who it is and what it does. Only a company that has lost its way a little bit, that doesn’t know precisely what business it’s actually in, tends to fight itself like this. Andy only needed to look twenty blocks uptown from his New York office and a few years into the past, at AOL Time Warner and the titanic merger that created the company in 2000, to see what the worst possible version of this might look like. When AOL and Time Warner merged, a lot was made of the new media entity’s size and market cap. The potential created by both teams leveraging the assets they brought to the table was difficult to contemplate let alone calculate. The merger was valued at $165 billion, but that was probably just a guess. The business press struggled to come up with adjectives grandiose enough to describe it. In the frenzy around the merger, however, something went unnoticed, or at least underappreciated: AOL Time Warner was opening its sails into some very stiff headwinds. The dot-com bubble was about to burst. Ad sales would then slump, which would inevitably cast doubt on the future viability of the internet (whose arrival this huge merger officially signaled) right as the one element that would ultimately release its true potential—high-speed broadband—was about to come online, catching the company off guard and fully broadsiding its leadership. These obstacles could have been surmounted by a company that knew what it was about, to paraphrase Andy Dunn. With a strong culture unified by a larger mission and propelled by people who were all rowing in the same direction, they could have even leveraged the obstacles they faced into opportunities. Except inside AOL Time Warner, there was no unity to be found, and within a decade the merger would be dead. Both companies would lose more than 85 percent of their premerger value. Time Warner would eventually spin off its cable business (Time Warner Cable), it’s publishing business (Time Inc.), and, of course, AOL, which would reenter a radically transformed digital media landscape as a wandering shell of its former self. The smaller Time Warner rebranded itself as WarnerMedia, which was ultimately sold to AT&T for around $85 billion in 2018. In the aftermath of the merger’s unwinding (which occurred at roughly the same time Andy and Brian unwound their partnership at Bonobos, coincidentally), analysts and participants alike pointed to the schism between the AOL folks down in Virginia and the Time Warner folks up in New York as one of the principal reasons for the company’s failure to find its way through the turbulent waters of the dot-com recession. There was always great talk about “building synergy” between AOL and Time Warner, but in the end that turned out to be an illusory goal. “Some of it was the fights within the company,” Steve Case, AOL’s chairman, told me. “It was a mix of different factors but at the end of the day it’s about people and it’s about teams.” On the ten-year anniversary of the announcement of the merger, the New York Timesran a retrospective oral history, titled “How the AOL–Time Warner Merger Went So Wrong,” that featured insights from many of the executives involved in the deal and in the operation of the resulting enterprise. It concluded with Richard Parsons, the president of Time Warner at the time of the merger. “The business model sort of collapsed under us, and then finally this cultural matter,” Parsons said. “. . . It was beyond certainly my abilities to figure out how to blend the old media and the new media culture. They were like different species, and in fact, they were species that were inherently at war.” Once AOL Time Warner started to sink, there was no saving it, because each side was more interested in blaming the other for why the ship wasn’t seaworthy rather than working together to patch the holes in the hull, bail out the water, and maybe get the thing upright and sailing again. Bonobos was nowhere close to a sinking ship in 2013, but it wasdefinitely listing. It was struggling to figure out who it was and what it did. Andy’s vision at the time was to create a whole portfolio of brands beyond Bonobos, using the “digitally native vertical brand model” they’d effectively invented and leaning heavily on personalization, since the more brands they added, the richer their data sets would be and the better their product offerings and services would become. “The mandate to New York was to build the best men’s clothing brand we can,” he said, “and the mandate to California was to build the best technology platform we can.” A platform that, he hoped, would power Bonobos first but then, over time, would become the backbone of the many other brands they developed.