“I went out to the parking lot, and I just started weeping. I put everything into this. This is my life. These are my employees, and this is my family. It was named after my dad!” Gary said, describing the emotions flowing out of him. “Halfway around the block, I decided not to sell.” To Lisa this would seem like a total about-face. The deal was done as far as she was concerned. What she didn’t know was that for the previous three months, as the deal was being negotiated, Gary had been living in total darkness. “I was not sleeping well. I was not riding my bike. I was probably not very fun to be around,” he said. He spent every waking moment of those three months fighting himself over the deal. And on top of all that, when telling the employees about their plans to sell, Gary felt like he’d sold them a lie. “I said things would not change. And it was not true. Of course it was going to change. It could be better, it could be worse—but you can’t say it is not going to change,” Gary said. That’s the control part of the founder’s dilemma that Noam Wasserman described. The price Gary Erickson would have to pay for his $60 million cut of the sale was the inability to reassure his employees— his family —that everything was going to be how it always was. That everything was going to be okay. It was a price he wasn’t willing to pay. Not because he thought whoever Quaker Oats installed to run Clif Bar would do a bad job, but because it was a job that he loved and still wanted, even if it cost him $60 million. Which it would, because Lisa still wanted out. Gary spent the next seven months “dialing for dollars,” looking for $60 million to buy out his partner. It’s what she was expecting, it’s what she was losing, and it was only fair. At the same time, Gary was back running thecompany day to day, and it was growing like crazy. “This isn’t something you want to deal with as you are growing your business,” Gary said. He already had his normal Clif Bar duties to fulfill. But now he had $60 million in debt to cover and a workforce that, at least for a time, was “convinced this would be a short-term deal and I would go back and sell the company.” He was taking calls from private equity groups who’d heard what had happened and were putting out feelers by way of telling Gary that he was out of his mind for turning down Quaker Oats and that Clif Bar was never going to make it, even without the debt. And yet, nine years later, Gary paid off the entire debt. Nine years after that, Clif Bar did more than $6 billionin sales. And today, it’s the leading energy bar in the United States. For Gary, none of this was about the money, or even the control. “There was something deeper about wanting to grow this business. The power of a business done the right way is way more powerful than two rich people,” Gary said. It’s a power that comes from freedom and contentment. The freedom to do whatever you want because you are content with the fact that you’ve already done what you know is right. In that moment back in April 2000, halfway through his walk around the block, when Gary decided not to sell Clif Bar, he “felt completely free.” Free, ironically enough, to stay right where he was, to take on even more responsibility than he had before, and to do right by his employees. That decision would eventually make him rich, and it would immediately make him happy. Angie and Dan Bastian wanted to do right by their employees as well. That was a big part of the reason they chose to sell their popcorn company, Angie’s BOOMCHICKAPOP. First, a majority stake was sold to the private equity firm TPG Capital in 2014, then the whole thing was sold to Conagra in 2017. Unlike the three months of torment that Gary Erickson endured prior to pulling the pin on the sale of Clif Bar to Quaker Oats, it wasn’t so hard for Angie and Dan to let go. It was easier than the road they had taken to get to a place where a major multinational corporation would even consider buying them, that was for sure. Angie and Dan had been at it since 2003. Eleven years! Initially, just as an outdoor events company, popping kettle corn in their garage and selling it outside supermarkets, Little League baseball games, and Minnesota Vikings football games in the freezing Minnesota winter. That they would end up building a business defined by beautifully branded and packagedpopcorn that flies off grocery store shelves across North America was as much a shock to them as to anyone, because in the beginning this whole thing was just a side hustle. A psychiatric nurse practitioner and middle school teacher, respectively, Angie and Dan were looking for a way to make a little extra money that they could put away for their children’s college educations. The kids were just three and five years old when their parents started to kick around ideas. “We are successfully employed, but we don’t have any savings—we haven’t started yet—and everybody’s already got a college fund and a 401-whatever-that-is,” Angie said of their financial situation at the time, to a roar of laughter from the audience during our live interview in Minneapolis in 2019. “We don’t have anything. We have to figure out how to create something here.” The fact that it was kettle corn they landed on was pure chance—a product of Dan’s intrepid late-night googling. “Somehow I stumbled across a site that said, ‘Make thousands of dollars every weekend popping kettle corn,’” Dan said. “I didn’t even know what it was.” His ignorance of the sweet-and-salty treat did little to suppress his appetite for the offer this website presented. For the low, low price of $10,000, a couple in Gig Harbor, Washington, who’d made thistheir side hustle, would send them a big kettle with all the equipment, a tent, and a table. No recipe. “I remember distinctly the phone call,” Angie said. “I’m in the middle of a patient takedown, and my husband’s on the line. So I run back to the nurses’ station, and he’s on the other end and he says, ‘Ange what do you think about kettle corn?’ I’m like, ‘I like kettle corn.’” So they bought it. Over the phone. On a credit card. For the next two years, during the week Dan taught Spanish and social studies to thirteen-year-olds while Angie worked at the localclinic, * then at night and on weekends they would fire up the kettle, hand-pack the kettle corn into cheap Ziploc bags, and set out around the greater Minneapolis area with their folding table and their tent, selling bags of their delicious $3 snack. There is a well-known African proverb that says it takes a village to raise a child. The next ten years for Angie and Dan Bastian would prove that it also takes a village to build a popcorn business. In 2003, they were introduced by a friend to the buyer for a local grocery chain. The buyer took a liking to them (and their kettle corn) and gave them the kick in the pants they needed to make their side hustle legitimate. “They said, ‘Get your act together. Get a nutritional panel. Get packaging—twist ties don’t work in grocery stores,’” Dan said. “ ‘Then come back and talk to us.’” So over the next six months, they bought some equipment, they rented out a small commercial kitchen—they “moved the operation indoors,” as Angie likes to put it—and they came back to the grocery chain to officially launch “Angie’s Kettle Corn.” They were licensed, and they were roofed, but they were still just kind of making it work with whomever and what they had around them. Their logo was drawn by a local woman named Chris Higginbotham, who lived in a small town just north of theirs. “We sat in her basement and drew out the logo,” Angie said of their very formal business arrangement. They were able to get the labels for the packaging printed locally as well. When it came time to manufacture the kettle corn, it was mostly Dan in the kitchen, but he and Angie and their kids “and whoever else we could find” would hand-pack and label the bags every night. Dan would wake up early every morning and pack up the day’s product into old banana boxes that he’d liberated from the very grocery stores to which he was about to make deliveries. Then, every Thursday through Sunday, he and Angie would do product demos in a half dozen of their first grocery clients with the help of a couple named Don and Jeannie Boyer, who would eventually become their employees, but at the time were justa couple retired third-grade teachers who wanted to do something together. Unable to afford actual employees just yet, Dan and Angie offered the Boyers $8 an hour . . . combined. “They said, ‘We don’t care what you pay us,’” Angie recalled, “because they were kind people and they wanted to help.” Within a couple years, Angie and Dan would need financial and organizational help as well. They’d been putting most of their business expenses on credit cards, and by 2006 they had so much credit card debt that they were technically in worse financial shape than when they started. That’s when a family friend who was also an accountant came to their aid. “He looked at our books and said, ‘Why don’t I just give you a loan here, and we can relieve your credit card debt and you can pay me back?’” Angie recalled. A year later, Dan’s brother, Greg, would join the business and continue the work their accountant-friend had begun by helping to clean things up from a financial perspective. Greg would become “the rock of the company,” Dan said. The support and guidance these people offered could not have come at a better time, because while Angie and Dan weren’t making any money yet, it was clear by the time Greg joined the company in 2007 that they were onto something. They couldn’t keep up with demand. There weren’t enough hours in the day for Dan to do the cooking and to complete everything else on his daily to-do lists. As a stopgap, they hired three students from Minnesota State University—two of whom were relatives—and paid them minimum wage. They put a cooler of beer at the end of the production line as an incentive.