It was the kind of fringe benefit that only a college student could love. Soon, in order to ramp up production, they had to move into a bigger building, which the North Mankato Port Authority agreed to help them finance if they guaranteed they would create at least eight new jobs. (They blew that number out of the water.) In the spring of 2008, they got their first taste of the grocery store big leagues. The buyer for Trader Joe’s, whom Dan had been harassing for months with phone calls and shipments of sample product, ordered twenty-fivetrucks worth of kettle corn to be distributed through all of the Trader Joe’s stores nationwide. It was an orderworth $400,000 or $500,000. And they had neither the money nor the staff to fulfill it. Thankfully, Greg was able to convince a credit card company that had recently sent Dan an offer for an instant $100,000 line of credit (it was one of those fake-looking checks you get in the mail—apparently they’re real!) to wire the money right into Dan and Angie’s business account. Then their friend Colette, who owned a human resources company, helped them hire a bunch of people. * With the money and the muscle secured, they were able to meet the manufacturing demands of their first Trader Joe’s order and set themselves up for a second one, and then a third, and a fourth, each coming more quickly than the one before it. By 2009, the revenue of Angie’s Kettle Corn reached $3 million to $4 million, the lion’s share coming from Trader Joe’s. Things took off from there. They got into Target, into regional grocery chains, and then into Costco. In 2011, when they went through a rebrand to become Angie’s BOOMCHICKAPOP, with a renewed focus on healthy popcorn snacks, their growth rate was approximately 4,000 percent. In 2014, they caught the eye of TPG, a very large private equity firm with a reputation for smart acquisitions of responsible companies. TPG bought out the interest of a smaller firm that had taken a minority stake back in 2010 and took a majority stake themselves. It allowed Dan and Angie, for the first time, to take money off the table for themselves and to distribute some of the wealth among their employees. The people who had helped them take their little kettle corn operation from stripped-down demos in local grocery stores to an entire product line with eye-level shelf placement at Target and endcap displays at Trader Joe’s. The people who had taken a risk to help them get out of debt and teach them how to run a real business. The people who had made it possible for them to reach their goal of securing their children’s college educations and to achieve so, so much more. When they finalized the deal with TPG in 2014, “those granted equity shares became liquid for our staff,” Angie said. “It was the bestthree days of my career.” They were able to distribute millions of dollars to “everyone who had given everything to us,” Dan said, choking up as we neared the end of our interview. “It was kind of a thank-you to everybody.” And then they got to do it again in 2017 when Conagra bought the whole business for a quarter of a billion dollars. “That was really fun,” Angie said, because it gave them a chance to reward those employees who hadn’t been granted equity yet. “We did a calculation, and they got a check, too.” What made their exit so smooth, I think, was that they were able to do it slowly, over time. The three years between the TPG deal and the Conagra acquisition allowed Dan and Angie to “take a big step back and let new leadership come in,” Dan said. “We were able to participate as much as we wanted and as much as the staff needed us, so that when 2017 came, it wasn’t as emotional as the 2014 sale.” Exiting slowly and selling with an eye toward others cut through the tensions of the typical founder’s dilemma. Angie and Dan didn’t have to choose between money and control, “rich” and “king”; they just had to think about happy or not happy. “We started this to put our kids through college,” Dan said, “and now we’re doing it for all these other people.” That was much more rewarding. It offered a sense of contentment and true happiness, and eventhat they were able to share with their old company’s new leadership. When Angie and Dan calculated the distributions from the Conagra sale for their non-equity employees, they gave the checks to the leadership to pass out. “They got to experience what it felt like to give,” Angie said. It’s the kind of gesture that stays with your people long after you, the company founder and their leader, have gone. 25 Be Kind Starting a business is hard. Growing a business is harder. Sustaining that business for a long time, at or above the standards you set for it at the beginning, for many founders seems hardest of all. Mostly because it requires so much buy-in—on mission, on values, on identity, on dozens of constantly changing things—from every employee who walks through your doors every day as they come to work. Inspiring your employees to exhibit that kind of unity can be incredibly difficult—not because of their lack of interest, but because of your lack of time and know-how. As founder and CEO, you’re going to be busy. So very busy. There are going to be products to launch, strategies to build, meetings to lead, people to hire, fires to put out, investors to woo and to answer to. Your natural instinct will be to focus the majority of your time on the things you’re good at—the business stuff, the product stuff. You’ll prioritize cultivating the things that add to the bottom line while mitigating those that subtract from it. As you should. That’s your job. But it is not youronly job. You are also the mission maker, the values setter, the morale booster. You are responsible for creating an environment in which your employees can thrive, work can get done, customers’ needscan be met, and you can be proud of what your company has accomplished at the end of each day. There are a thousand management and leadership books out there that will give you advice on how to do all of this. They have systems and multistep plans and case studies with data to back it all up. There is something valuable to be gleaned from each of them. But I honestly don’t think it needs to be that complicated. I don’t believe you need to take a personality inventory of your entire team in order to know what motivates people or to get their buy-in on the business. I think it’s all much, much simpler than that. I didn’t always believe that. Before I went into podcasting, I spent my entire career in large media organizations with strong cultures defined by difficult work environments. Whether it was the actual physical place, like the war zones I reported from for a number of years, or the general atmosphere, with its competing personal ambitions, tight deadlines, and even tighter budgets, the only thing you could get a group of journalists to agree on was that they didn’t agree on anything. My opinion began to change on this subject as I interviewed more and more entrepreneurs. Many of them struggled with hiring early in the growth process, but comparatively few struggled with retention once they got their businesses figured out. Initially, the reason for this was hard to pin down. These founders came from across the entrepreneurial spectrum, and they had very little in common besides the fact that they all started businesses. They were doingsomething differently, though—that I knew. I just didn’t have the entrepreneurial language to describe it. Eventually, my thinking crystallized when I realized that I didn’t need business jargon to understand them, since what they were doing differently wasn’t entrepreneurial at all; it was just quintessentially human. One of the first opportunities I had to express this idea publicly was, of all places, as a guest on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallonin the summer of 2019. As he wrapped up our interview, Jimmy asked me if I could offer one piece of advice to aspiring entrepreneurs in the audience—one thing I’d learned from all these amazing people I’d interviewed that I could share with them. What I told Jimmy, the people assembled in Studio 6B, and the viewers at home across the country was to be kind; that kind leaders have kind companies; that kindness is a powerful tool; that kindness isfree —it costs nothing!—and that the return on investment for kindness is bigger than that for any financial investment an entrepreneur can make. I believe in the truth of that message a little more each day. It doesn’t mean every single person is kind every second of the day. Believe me, I have my moments. So much so, that as I write this, I am looking at a small pennant I bought on Etsy that simply says BE KIND . I have it up on the wall in my studio to remind me of this message as an aspiration and a daily goal. Sometimes I fall short, but I use it as my North Star nonetheless, and every day that I keep myself pointed in that general direction is a good day. Fundamentally, I don’t believe a company can stand the test of time if people will not stand for the company. And I find one of the most reliable ways the vast majority of entrepreneurs inspire people to do that is with kindness. I don’t know any other way to put it. So many of them are just kind! They treat their people well. They do the little thingsand the big things. They pay their success forward. And with rare exceptions, they are also highly ethical. They act with an integrity that seems to come from a place of deep morality. When I ask founders about how they built their teams or how they managed through tough times, for example, more often than not their answers begin with the words “I believe” or “we believe.” What they believe isn’t always the same, but it always feels profoundly personal. It’s not clinical or calculated. It’s compassionate. There is an empathy present in their decisions that often extends all the way out to the customer. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, when Marcia Kilgore was building the skin care and facial business that would become Bliss out of a tiny studio apartment in Manhattan’s East Village, she developed a reputation as more than just an expert on clearing up bad skin.