“I don’t care when you work as long as the job gets done,” he explained. What his employees do with the rest of their time is up to them. There are no hard-and-fast rules other than that. The extent to which anything is codified at all is the explicit understanding, made famous in Yvon’s 2005 best-selling memoir, Let My People Go Surfing, that “when the surf comes up, you drop working and you go surfing.” I would argue that this generosity of spirit, this confidence in his people to manage their own time, is Yvon’s primary means of expressing the sort of kindness and respect that create a positive work environment and a loyal, productive workforce. Like Kim Jordan, Yvon knows the average person spends a third of their life at work. Kim’s way of honoring that commitment is to share ownership in the business. Yvon’s approach is to give as much of that time back to his employees as he can, so they can live their lives, be their whole selves, and bring those whole selves into the workplace with them every day. That impulse to build a business with a fully actualized workforce has been the driver, almost since day one, for a number of company-wide policies—mostly related to families—that have made Patagonia consistently one of the great places to work since its founding in Southern California in 1973. The company has had flexible work schedules and extensive maternity and paternity leavesince the seventies. * In the early days, when a woman’s maternity leave was up, Yvon would let her bring her infant to work with her. “We wanted to have our kids with us at work,” Yvon said plainly, “so we put them in a cardboard box on your desk, and that worked for a while. But then we got some screamers, so my wife started a childcare center.” Not some impersonal babysitting service staffed by a faceless third-party vendor either, but an honest-to-goodness childcare center. “We recognized that two to five years old is the most important learning time of a person’s life,” Yvon said. “The kids that come out of our company are the best product that we make.” Some have been so good, Patagonia has even hired them. That’s how long their childcare center has been around. They have employees today who grew up in it! While Yvon, an avid outdoorsman and bona fide free spirit, has always considered himself a reluctant businessman (it’s in the subtitle of his book), decisions like these were not acts of pure charity. Patagonia’s policy of hiringnannies to go on business trips with employees who are new parents and don’t want to be away from their young children is as much about the importance of family as it is about the value of employee productivity. Policies like this one have a deep business logic, grounded in Yvon’s desire to build a company that will last. “I have probably 70 percent women working for me. I have more women than men in all upper management, and I don’t want to lose them,” he said. “If we are going to be here 100 years, it’s good business.” What makes these policies good business is not simply that theyare kind and human gestures, though both things are true. It’s that they remove the traditional trade-offs between time and money that most working parents have to make as they attempt to strike a balance between work and family. When you eliminate that trade-off altogether, you reduce the pull many working parents feel to choose one or the other. You give them back time, and you increase their ability to be present in all aspects of their lives as their whole selves. That was Eileen Fisher’s big regret when she reflected on how she navigated trying to be the best mom she could be and running her company, all while she went through a divorce. Knowing what she does now, she confessed, she would have done things differently. “I would have just worked harder at being where I was, doing what I was doing in the moment, stop trying to be two places at once, and just do the best I can.” She would have worked harder at being her whole self. Instead, Eileen felt the constant pull of obligation in both directions, and any time she gave in to one side, she felt like she was letting down the other. She was losing or forgetting part of herself no matter which way she went. And she was the boss! Imagine what that is like for normal employees. That push and pull is not something Yvon is interested in for his employees. “We want them to bewho they are,” Patagonia’s chief human resources officer said at a management conference in the spring of 2019, in the simplest articulation of a forty-year policy that has produced not only some of the highest-quality outerwear on the market but an industry-defying 4 percent employee turnover rateand a 100 percent retention ratefor new mothers returning to work. If you can get your employees to stick around the way Yvon Chouinard has, it might just be possible to build a company that will last 100 years as he hopes Patagonia will. To be clear, there is no one right way to treat your people well. Starbucks offers benefits and college tuition opportunities to its part-time employees. Burton Snowboards lets you bring your dog to work. (They had 132 dogs registered to employees when we talked in 2017.) And if it snows more than two feet in Vermont, the officeshuts down, and everyone at Burton hits the slopes. At Clif Bar headquarters in Emeryville, California, Gary Erickson and his wife and co-CEO, Kit Crawford, have on-site daycare, a gym, personal trainers, and boxes of Clif Bars all around campus, with the full understanding that employees can take as many as they want any time they want. Whatever your choices as founder, a robust set of ethics should sit at their foundation. Beyond that, only two things are truly necessary when it comes to building a kind, long-lasting company. One, that the things you do advance your mission and match your values. And two, that you do them from the beginning, precisely because mission, values, and culture generally are so hard to change. This was largely the undoing of AOL Time Warner, remember, and the reason nothing could pull American Apparel out of its tailspin after Dov Charney lost the trust of his board and his employees. This was also something that Yvon Chouinard was made to understand after numerous CEOs came to him over the years to learn how he built Patagonia and how they might copy his model at their own companies. In each case, he’d run them through Patagonia’s unique policies and his philosophy on management and service. They’d love one or another idea and get excited about bringing it back to their own teams. Then Yvon would tell them to forget it. “It will fail,” he’d say, “because you have to start with it, with the very first person you hire.” He had come to this conclusion after a number of years trying to help companies struggling to motivate and reenergize their workforce, having seen the same movie play out a dozen times, each time ending poorly. But there was another reason he felt that way—this one having less to do with other people’s companies and more to do with his own. “I have had psychologists study our employees,” Yvon told me, “and they said, ‘Your employees are the most independent we have ever seen in any company. In fact, they’re so independent, they’re unemployable anywhere else.’” The unkind reading of the psychologists’ message is that Yvon Chouinard has managed to build a business where the inmates runthe asylum. But I think the more accurate interpretation, and the reason he believes that Patagonia’s principles won’t translate to other companies unless the owners are starting from scratch, is that Yvon has cultivated a workforce that can’t imagine working anywhere else. It is the ultimate testament to the power of kindness, generosity, dignity, and respect in the building of a long-lasting business. 26 What You Do with Your Luck Istill remember my very first interview for How I Built This, which we released in September 2016. Sara Blakely. The inimitable, indefatigable billionaire founder of Spanx. She was a huge get for us. And she was placing a tremendous amount of trust in me. I believed in the concept of the show and in my abilities as an interviewer and a host, but this was still my first foray into a show exclusively about entrepreneurship, and it was still very much an experiment. Sara had graciously agreed to be the guinea pig, and I didn’t want to blow it. As a war reporter and host of Weekend All Things Consideredand TED Radio Hour, I’d interviewed more than 6,000 people—Nobel laureates, world leaders, pop stars, Olympic champions, business and industry titans, novelists, and many more—but in preparing to discuss the business story of one of the most successful female entrepreneurs ever, I couldn’t help but feel nervous. I was still a little fuzzy, for instance, on some of the acronyms I would come to know over the next four years—CPG, P&L, and LTV, for instance—and what actually goes into calculating COGS. Beyond surviving the interview with my professional dignity intact, I was equally concerned about the show’s survival after its first few weeks out in the world. I didn’treally know if people would careabout the stories I was trying to help entrepreneurs tell. I knew listeners would benefit from them, but only if we could get this right. Only if I could make my guests comfortable enough to be honest and vulnerable. I had no way of knowing whether my normal approach as an interviewer would work to make that happen. And having spent my entire professional career as a journalist, with a healthy dose of skepticism toward business vibrating underneath it, I was worried about giving listeners the wrong message about entrepreneurship. Looking back almost four years later, I can happily say that I no longer worry about these things. As it turns out, peopledo care about entrepreneurial stories and the hero’s journeys at their core, and entrepreneurs appreciate the chance to be transparent and forthright about the events in their lives that shaped who they have become and the businesses they have built. The fact that we have been able to turn all that into a successful podcast has left me with lots of different feelings. I’m extremely grateful for the listeners and fans. I’m inspired by the brave, resilient entrepreneurs I’ve had the chance to meet, to interview, and in some cases even to befriend. And I’m incredibly proud of what my team and I have done with the show in just a few years.