But most of all, I feel lucky. See, I started at NPR many years ago as an intern, with a bunch of other interns who were much more accomplished and much more sophisticated than me. Every day for the first year or so, I was convinced I could never compete with these brilliant people who would probably one day ascend to the anchor chairs of all the great NPR programs. And yet, somehow I built a successful career in broadcasting. It’s a set of circumstances I can only make sense of when I recognize that although I worked hard, I also got very lucky. Lucky that people discovered my shows. Lucky that NPR gave me the opportunity to try something new. Lucky that I had two loving parents and a good education. Lucky that I grew up in the United States, where the mere thought of building something from nothing, of taking a chance at doing something you love, isn’t some absurd fantasy, but is baked into the nation’s founding promise. I am a big believer in luck. When I look back at the trajectory ofmy life, I feel like luck has played an outsized role in much of the professional success I have enjoyed. I’m even lucky I was rejected for jobs at NPR I desperately wanted—rejections that were painful and difficult at the time. Because had I gotten those jobs, I wouldn’t be making the shows I make today. That’s one of the reasons I end every interview on How I Built Thisby asking my guests to what extent they feel luck played a part in their success, compared with things like hard work and skill and intelligence. Not because I think there is a right answer, or even that there is an answer at all, but because in attempting to answer this question, they must take a moment to reflect. After spending many hours walking me through every little detail of their entrepreneurial journey—from the call of their idea for a business, to the all-is-lost moments they were able to overcome, all the way to their present-day involvement in the company they have worked tirelessly to shape—founders have a chance to think one more time about everything we’ve just talked about, everything they thought about before coming in to the studio, and to reevaluate how all the pieces of their story fit together. Almost without fail, this question has produced some of the most revealing parts of my interviews. In a way, the question functions like the big, blank, cavernous lobby atriums you find in most of the world’s great museums. It’s a transitional space between everything you’ve just absorbed from history and everything in present-day life you’re about to step back into. It’s a place to pause, to gather yourself and to synthesize all of it into a better understanding of your world. I watched this happen in real time with Rod Canion, the founder of Compaq Computer, for example, when I asked him about the nature of his success and he took a long beat before responding. “If you’d asked me that in the late eighties, I would probably have said it was 90 percent intelligence and insight and work, and 10 percent luck. But I would say today it was the other way around,” Rod said. “That tells you how perspective changes with time.” What changes, I think, is the appreciation for just how many people out there are smarter or work harder or have more money or possess a more resilient personality, and are still less successful despitetheir best efforts. Every successful entrepreneur I’ve met has a story about working eighteen-hour days for months on end or eating ramen and cereal and rice to get by, but none of them has ever worked harder in their capacity as a founder than a dishwasher or a gardener or a construction worker or a waitress works every single day. Now, I’m not trying to take away from the difficulty of starting a business. The conversations I’ve had since I started How I Built Thishave opened my eyes to what a remarkable challenge it is just to stand up an idea, let alone to grow it into a company that can function successfully without its founder at the helm. It’s hard work. The point is, you can do everything right, you can make all the plays, and still you can lose the game. Convincingly so. In fact, most people do lose. Most businesses fail within a year or two. The cards are generally stacked against anyone thinking about starting a business. And yet, at the same time, if one or two bounces go your way, all of a sudden you can come out of the game as the big winner. That is luck. Just look at someone like the late Herb Kelleher. Herb was an incredibly hard worker. But Herb also got lucky in ways that were entirely out of his control. During their first seven years in service, Southwest Airlines flew only within the state of Texas, but the deregulation of the airline industry in 1978 enabled them to break the monopolistic stranglehold that the big airlines had on domestic routes by offering staggeringly cheap cross-country flights. Southwest also launched during a transitional period in the culture when more and more people became interested in air travel. Previously, air travel was something that was accessible only to a small number of people. The Don Drapers of the world. By undercutting the bigger airlines and offering affordable airfare—courtesy of deregulation—Herb and his team were able to tap into that pent-up demand and turn massive profits from a customer base that didn’t exist only a few years earlier. It was a brilliant move by Herb, no question; one that required relentless hard work to execute. But Southwest was also in the right place at the right time. They were lucky. Herb was lucky. So was Tobi Lütke, the founder of Shopify, though his luck came disguised inside misfortune. What propelled Tobi’s e-commerceplatform to its initial massive success were the millions of people who were suddenly out of work because of the 2008 financial crisis and were turning to online businesses as a way to pay the bills. While other internet properties and media companies suffered losses, Shopify exploded. Could it have succeeded without the rush of customers from the financial crisis? Yes, absolutely. But as much? Or as quickly? It’s hard to say. What isn’t is that Tobi’s timing was very lucky. A number of founders I interviewed found luck within the financial crisis as well. Ron Shaich saw it as a chance to invest even more heavily in the Panera brand and grow it much more quickly than originally planned, ultimately tripling the stock price. Carley Roney and David Liu saw their site, The Knot, grow 5 percent while other media companies shrank by as much as 20 percent. They were lucky to be in the right business. “Weddings were truly recession-proof,” David said. Kendra Scott considers the recession the greatest gift her eponymous jewelry company ever received, because it gave her the permission she would never grant herself to pivot the company away from wholesale to consumer retail, where she ultimately found massive success. “For all these years, I’d been worrying about what the buyers wanted. I wasn’t thinking as much about the customer,” Kendra said. “Then the whole world changed, and I realized I had to refocus all of my attention on the customer.” Each of these stories has a strong strain of luck running through it. But I’m not talking about luck in this context as any sort of admonition against these founders being proud of all the hard work they put in. I mention it in order to, I hope, help aspiring entrepreneurs understand that the luck these founders experienced was not some disembodied magical force. It didn’t happen in a vacuum. It didn’t happento them. Luck, when it comes right down to it, is really just an opportunity waiting to be taken advantage of, and they took advantage of it. Herb’s strategy for Southwest wasn’t a directionless guess. The airline didn’t run headlong into the good fortune of deregulation and changing travel habits by chance. Herb was open to the luck that was unfolding in front of him. He recognized it for the opportunity that it was, and he developed a strategy to maximize it. Thesame is true of Ron Shaich, Kendra Scott, Tobi Lütke, and The Knot founders. Kevin Systrom, one of the Instagram founders, has a simple theory about luck. He shared it as part of his answer to my final question at the end of my interview with him and co-founder Mike Krieger. “The whole world runs on luck. The question is, what you do with it.” I think he’s right. I think everyone is lucky in some number of ways for some amount of time in their life, and it’s what you do with your luck while you have it that determines whether you succeed or you fail or you even try. Maybe you have a good network, like John Foley, the co-founder of Peloton, who raised $400,000 as a seed round from eight people who “knew me and trusted me and loved me,” as he described them, including his brother-in-law, who was the CEO of Ticketmaster. Maybe you were born into a stable home like Chet Pipkin, who lived with his parents, in the same house he’d grown up in, while he started Belkin International on the dining room table before moving into the garage. “Chet, I love you very, very much,” his mother said, “but you’re going to get this stuff off of this table.” That is what counted for tough love in the Pipkin household! Maybe you had the privilege of a good education like a significant number of the entrepreneurs I’ve interviewed. Jenn Hyman is double Harvard. Jim Koch is triple Harvard. Ron Shaich, Susan Tynan of Framebridge, Katrina Lake, and Alexa von Tobel of LearnVest all went to Harvard Business School. Andy Dunn and Randy Hetrick went to the Stanford Graduate School of Business. The Warby Parker guys went to Penn. There is no arguing how lucky you should consider yourself if you find your way into one of those institutions. All of those entrepreneurs certainly did. Or maybe you were lucky enough to be born with the kind of personality that makes you more resilient, more willing to accept rejection, more willing to do whatever it takes, without the massive ego that prevents so many from sticking with it during hard times. A personality like Daymond John’s, with the drive to work hard and the resilience to push forward through all the nos until he got to a yes. Whatever the case, the question you will need to answer for yourself as an aspiring entrepreneur isn’t whether you will ever have any luck—you will, you probably already do.