It’s what you are going to do with the luck that you have. Are you going to take advantage of it? Are you going to do the work? Are you going to take the leap? Are you going to write that twenty-fifth investor email? What about the twenty-sixth? Are you going to pay all the friends in your network to buy your product so the stores think its super popular right away, like Sara Blakely did with the first five stores she got Spanx into? Are you going to physically move your product in those stores to a more optimal location like she did, too? Those are choices you will have when you realize how lucky you are and you spot the opportunities that come with that luck. The most important opportunity I ever spotted was the chance to meet this beautiful and brilliant woman at a friend’s barbecue I was lucky enough to attend in Washington, DC, in the summer of 2000. Her name was Hannah. And while I didn’t actually talk to her that day, I engineered it so that my friend who was hosting the barbecue, who was also Hannah’s roommate, would bring her along to another party I was invited to the following day. This is the other thing about luck that you can’t forget: you have some agency over it. As Brian Scudamore said to me when he was talking about pestering the Idaho Transportation Board into giving him the phone number “1-800-GOT-JUNK,” sometimes “you make your own luck.” Recruiting our mutual friend to my cause was one of those times for me. The following night, Hannah showed up at the party, though not without some initial misgivings that were completely unrelated to me and that I only learned about after the fact. She just didn’t feel like going. Then, right as her roommate was getting ready to leave their house, Hannah reversed herself. She shouted down to the front door, “Hang on, I’m coming!”—and arrived just in time for me to fall in love with her. Two months later, I left for Berlin to become NPR’s bureau chief. We were separated by an ocean for two more years. Yet we stayed together. Twenty years later, we are married, we have two children, and she has become the single most important influence in my life. So muchof what I’ve done and the opportunities I have had have been directly connected to her support, guidance, and wisdom. The opportunity to meet her was the luckiest thing that has ever happened to me. You and I, we are both lucky. I had the opportunity to write this book; you had the money to buy it (or the patience to wait for it at the library) and the time and inclination to read it. I’ve had the privilege of meeting and interviewing some of the world’s most successful innovators, entrepreneurs, and idealists in order to help them tell their stories; you somehow found your way here, where you can learn from the lessons their stories hold. In 2015, I had an idea for a podcast that a few key folks at NPR and my partner in life, Hannah, encouraged me to pursue; today, or someday soon, I hope you are lucky enough to have your own idea that this book helps you to pursue. If it does, please let me know, because I really want to hear about how you built it. AFTERWORD Here’s something you may not know: what you hear on How I Built Thisand my other interview shows is an edited version of a much longer conversation. I spend two, three, sometimes four or more hours guiding my interview partners through the small details and big moments of their life journeys. It’s an intense and often emotional experience—for them and for me. My rule is simple: nothing is off-limits, and everything is on the table. Because all of us are complicated. Everyone has embarrassing episodes in their life they’d rather not talk about. But those moments are part of the journey, and, when contextualized, they help to give us a more detailed picture of who a person is. As you might imagine, when you spend a concentrated period of time with another person’s voice in your head—asking about your most challenging moments, your vulnerabilities, failures, mistakes, and lapses of judgment (along with your triumphs and successes, of course!)—it’s hard to walk away without feeling an unusually strong and deep connection. In most cases, I receive an email from my interviewees a few days later, and they describe the experience as a form of therapy. As catharsis and reflection. It makes total sense to me, because our instinct as humans is to push forward and to never look back. We rarelyget a chance to reflect on the journey that is life, or, in the case of my guests on How I Built This, the journey that is entrepreneurship. But those moments of reflection are crucial. Because if there’s one critical thing I’ve learned from the entrepreneurs I’ve interviewed—and from my own journey as an entrepreneur—it’s that you will have moments when you truly feel alone. Starting a business—starting anything creative, for that matter—is difficult. It is a twisting road with hours, days, weeks, and months filled with struggle and failure and self-doubt and even tears. When you add a sense of isolation to the mix, it’s “Hello, anxiety!” It happened to me a while back after weeks of sleepless nights. We were getting ready to move across the country, I was producing three shows with two more in the works, and I was starting to worry about everything. My family, my kids, my staff, the shows, partnerships, deadlines, my health. The fate of all these things felt as though it sat squarely and solely on my shoulders. Finally one night, my wife, Hannah, pulled out a notebook and asked me to tell her what was on my mind. I poured out everything in my head, and she wrote every word of it down. The act of emptying my anxieties onto the page was itself a therapeutic act that helped me get back to sleep, but the real salvation came three months later when Hannah pulled out the notebook and read my list of worries back to me. Not a single item on that list was relevant any longer! Not one of my worries had materialized in any meaningful way. Most things had worked out with the passage of time. But at the time, it felt like the world was collapsing around me. I would love to tell you this was just a “me” problem, but it’s part of the human condition. Our brains have a natural safety mechanism designed to help us react in times of stress and moments of threat. It was useful in prehistoric times when we had to escape from wild animals. The struggle today, as humans in a modern world, is to figure out how to flip that safety switch to neutral, how to step back from our lives and take the long view on our journeys. That, really, is what I try to do every time I sit down with an entrepreneur for How I Built This. As you read this book, you may have already heard and answered the call to entrepreneurship. You may be smack in the middle of navigating the crucible of its tests, trying to figure out exactly what kind of company you want to build and what kind of founder you want to become. Wherever you are on your journey, you will almost certainly face a moment like the one I experienced. A period of crippling anxiety and despair that no one could possibly understand what you’re dealing with, that everything is riding on the decisions you make, that it’s all up to you. When that happens, I want you to pull out a notebook and write those worries down. I want you to trap them on the page, so that you can look at them the next day, the next week, the next month, the next year, and realize that while every challenge and crisis you face in the pursuit of your idea feels like it could be the end of it all, it’s not. I promise. How do I know? You are still here, aren’t you? And not only are you still here, but you have everyone who is helping you bring your idea to life. You have everyone who wants to see you succeed. You have every single entrepreneur who has come before you and has made the mistakes you can now learn from without having to make those mistakes yourself. And you have this book, which I hope has given you a little bit of extra support and confidence to know that as you build your business, you are not alone. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This book is based primarily on my four years of interviews on the How I Built Thispodcast. Most of the people profiled here sat down with me for many hours. One of the hardest parts of producing the show is deciding what to keep and what to edit out. Same story with this book. There are a hundred other stories I could share—and hopefully will in a future book! In the end, I hope what remains here will help to inspire you along your journey. This book would still be a pile of notes, unruly paragraphs, disorganized ideas, and transcripts on my desk without the support of my brilliant writing partner, Nils Parker. Over the course of a year, I probably spent more time with Nils (on the phone or in person) than with nearly anyone other than my wife and kids. I will cherish these conversations, intellectual exchanges, and brainstorming sessions forever. This book is as much Nils’s as it is mine. We benefited greatly from the wisdom of Ryan Holiday, who provided critical feedback. Joseph Karnes and Billy Oppenheimer offered excellent research support, and Tessa Abrahams gave the manuscript a close read to make it better at every turn. Barbara Jatkola combed through the draft with a penetrating eye, and her feedback was incredibly helpful. My agents at UTA, Oren Rosenbaum and Byrd Leavell, have been huge champions and supporters of my work from the day I metthem. My editor at Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, Rick Wolff, was an early and enthusiastic backer of this idea and helped guide the writing process over the past two years. As I mentioned in the introduction, How I Built Thisbegan as an idea I had back in 2008 when I took a class at Harvard Business School during a sabbatical year as a Nieman journalism fellow after nearly eight years as a foreign correspondent. I spent the next seven years hosting Weekend All Things Consideredand then TED Radio Hour.